---
topic_id: 4639
title: "2018 11 06 Hangout"
date: 2018-11-05
url: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/4639
---

# 2018.11.06 Hangout

**Topic ID**: 4639
**Date**: 2018-11-05
**URL**: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/2018-11-06-hangout/4639

---

## Post #1 by @Sam_Horvath (2018-11-05 15:33 UTC)

<p>Hi,</p>
<p>We will be having our weekly hangout tomorrow, at 10:00 AM EST.</p>
<p>On the agenda will identifying major milestones for the Slicer 5 roadmap, and topics/critical fixes for the 4.10.1 patch release.  Current plans for the Slicer 5 transition are here: <a href="https://www.slicer.org/wiki/Documentation/Nightly/Developers/Tutorials/MigrationGuide/Slicer50" rel="nofollow noopener">https://www.slicer.org/wiki/Documentation/Nightly/Developers/Tutorials/MigrationGuide/Slicer50</a> .<br>
Other topics are always welcome!!</p>
<p>Anyone is welcome to join to ask questions at <a href="https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware" rel="nofollow noopener">https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware </a></p>
<p>Thanks !<br>
Sam</p>

---

## Post #2 by @jcfr (2018-11-06 12:44 UTC)

<p>It would also be neat to review and update the section <em>Workflow for Handling Bugs and Feature Requests</em> in Slicer available the <a href="https://www.slicer.org/wiki/Documentation/Nightly/Report_a_problem">Report a problem</a> page.</p>
<p>I did a first pass at updating it, but it would need an other pass.</p>

---

## Post #3 by @Sam_Horvath (2018-11-07 19:37 UTC)

<p>Meeting summary:</p>
<ul>
<li>quick discussion of <a class="mention" href="/u/pieper">@pieper</a> 's Qt conference/meeting thing</li>
<li>Qt will be settling on 5.12 for long term support before moving to Qt6</li>
<li>For the rest, mostly discussed RSNA poster and booth.</li>
</ul>

---
