# More than 256 colors

**Topic ID**: 13369
**Date**: 2020-09-07
**URL**: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/more-than-256-colors/13369

---

## Post #1 by @MancaZerovnik (2020-09-07 10:23 UTC)

<p>Hi,<br>
I have a volume with multiple labeled instances and I would like to have more than 256 colors to show each instance with a different color. I tried to make a custom color table because all the existing ones are limited to 256 colors. I saved the existing color table and modified the text file to include more than 256 colors, but when I import it to Slicer it doesn’t show up.</p>
<p>Is there a way to have more than 256 colors in a color table?<br>
Best regards,<br>
Manca</p>

---

## Post #2 by @lassoan (2020-09-07 14:04 UTC)

<p>There are several color tables with more than 256 entries, for example the General Anatomy Colors: <a href="https://github.com/Slicer/Slicer/blob/master/Base/Logic/Resources/ColorFiles/GenericAnatomyColors.txt">https://github.com/Slicer/Slicer/blob/master/Base/Logic/Resources/ColorFiles/GenericAnatomyColors.txt</a></p>

---

## Post #3 by @MancaZerovnik (2020-09-08 08:13 UTC)

<p>Thank you for your answer. I need more than 500 colors which I didn’t find in any of the color tables.</p>

---

## Post #4 by @lassoan (2020-09-08 12:14 UTC)

<p>You can have color maps up to 65535 entries. We could enable up to 4 billion labels, but that would require a few small changes in the code and it has not been necessary so far.</p>

---

## Post #5 by @MancaZerovnik (2020-09-08 12:33 UTC)

<p>Thank you for your answer. Is there an easy way to add more colors to color table? I know I can manually add each color but it is too slow for a higher number of colors. As I mentioned I tried to modify the exported and saved color table but I can not import it. When I import it it does not show up.</p>

---

## Post #6 by @lassoan (2020-09-08 12:37 UTC)

<p>You can edit the color table in Excel (you can split text to colums using “space” as a delimiter for convenience) or any text editor and load it into Slicer.</p>

---
