# 2025.07.08 Weekly Meeting

**Topic ID**: 43572
**Date**: 2025-07-02
**URL**: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/2025-07-08-weekly-meeting/43572

---

## Post #1 by @jcfr (2025-07-02 01:19 UTC)

<p>Next week, we will be having our next weekly hangout at <strong>10:00 AM ET until 11:00 AM ET.</strong></p>
<p>Anyone is welcome to join at this link: <a href="https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware">https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware</a></p>
<hr>
<div class="discourse-post-event" data-start="2025-07-08 10:00" data-status="public" data-name="Weekly Meeting" data-url="https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware" data-timezone="America/New_York" data-allowed-groups="trust_level_0"></div>
<p><strong>Agenda:</strong></p>
<p>Please post to this thread to put a topic on the agenda!  We will try to prioritize agenda items during the meeting.</p>
<hr>
<p>Thanks<br>
Sam and J-Christophe</p>

---

## Post #2 by @hjmjohnson (2025-07-02 19:01 UTC)

<p><strong>Agenda:</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Discuss code formatting conventions and plan to implement an automated code formatter.<br>
<a href="https://github.com/Slicer/Slicer/pull/8525" rel="noopener nofollow ugc">PR 8525</a><br>
<a href="https://github.com/Slicer/Slicer/pull/7603" rel="noopener nofollow ugc">PR 7603</a><br>
<a href="https://github.com/Slicer/Slicer/issues/5211" rel="noopener nofollow ugc">Issue 5211</a><br>
<a href="https://discourse.slicer.org/t/2024-02-27-weekly-meeting/34553">Weekly Meeting Agenda</a></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Strategize Qt6 upgrades</p>
</li>
</ul>

---

## Post #3 by @hjmjohnson (2025-07-08 12:20 UTC)

<p>CTK: Upgrades:</p>
<ul>
<li><a href="https://github.com/commontk/CTK/pull/1241" class="inline-onebox" rel="noopener nofollow ugc">update ci build submissions to add clazy support by hjmjohnson · Pull Request #1241 · commontk/CTK · GitHub</a>.   →  <a href="https://my.cdash.org/index.php?project=CTK" class="inline-onebox" rel="noopener nofollow ugc">CTK</a></li>
<li><a href="https://github.com/commontk/CTK/pull/1240" class="inline-onebox" rel="noopener nofollow ugc">COMP: Update PythonQt to branch based off upstream v3.6.1 by jamesobutler · Pull Request #1240 · commontk/CTK · GitHub</a>.   → PythonQt updates</li>
<li><a href="https://github.com/commontk/CTK/pull/1239" class="inline-onebox" rel="noopener nofollow ugc">COMP: Add AUTO(MOC|UIC|RCC) build. Add missing Q_OBJECT for decendants of QObject by hjmjohnson · Pull Request #1239 · commontk/CTK · GitHub</a> (AUTO(MOC|UIC|RCC) + Q_OBJECT additions</li>
<li>DRAFT NEXT EFFORTS (Qt Compliance for best practices,   5000+ clazy warnings)<br>
-  <a href="https://github.com/commontk/CTK/pull/1242/commits/9d9acc18ab1919be21273410be2984e5a52ae5ae" class="inline-onebox" rel="noopener nofollow ugc">COMP: Fix NOTIFY warnings in Q_PROPERTIES by hjmjohnson · Pull Request #1242 · commontk/CTK · GitHub</a><br>
- <a href="https://github.com/commontk/CTK/pull/1242/commits/a997735f27e3fcfc75a739a39f5c6d341df1bf99" class="inline-onebox" rel="noopener nofollow ugc">COMP: Fix NOTIFY warnings in Q_PROPERTIES by hjmjohnson · Pull Request #1242 · commontk/CTK · GitHub</a></li>
</ul>

---

## Post #4 by @jcfr (2025-07-15 15:29 UTC)

<h2><a name="p-126780-meeting-notes-1" class="anchor" href="#p-126780-meeting-notes-1" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Meeting Notes</h2>
<h3><a name="p-126780-welcome-new-attendees-2" class="anchor" href="#p-126780-welcome-new-attendees-2" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Welcome New Attendees</h3>
<p>We were pleased to welcome the following new participants:</p>
<ul>
<li>Kate Wooley</li>
<li>Kat Dunn</li>
<li>Andy Huynh</li>
</ul>
<h3><a name="p-126780-use-of-clang-format-for-c-code-3" class="anchor" href="#p-126780-use-of-clang-format-for-c-code-3" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Use of <code>clang-format</code> for C++ Code</h3>
<ul>
<li>Discussed the use of <code>clang-format</code> for automatic C++ code formatting.</li>
<li>General consensus on the <strong>importance of consistent formatting</strong> across the codebase.</li>
<li>Two main strategies considered:
<ul>
<li><strong>Incremental adoption</strong> (formatting new/modified code).</li>
<li><strong>Full project-wide formatting</strong> in a single commit.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>Opinions were divided on the best approach.</li>
<li>Related work:
<ul>
<li>Proposed: <a href="https://github.com/Slicer/Slicer/pull/8525">PR #8525</a></li>
<li>Previous: <a href="https://github.com/Slicer/Slicer/pull/7603">PR #7603</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>An <strong>alternative approach</strong> suggested: enable but not enforce formatting in the beginning.</li>
<li>Plan to <strong>finalize the decision by next week</strong>.</li>
</ul>
<h3><a name="p-126780-ctk-updates-4" class="anchor" href="#p-126780-ctk-updates-4" aria-label="Heading link"></a>CTK Updates</h3>
<ul>
<li>Reviewed recent updates in <strong>CTK</strong>:
<ul>
<li><a href="https://github.com/commontk/CTK/pull/1239">PR #1239</a>: General updates and fixes.</li>
<li><a href="https://github.com/commontk/CTK/pull/1240">PR #1240</a>: Update <strong>PythonQt</strong> to upstream version 3.6.1.</li>
<li><a href="https://github.com/commontk/CTK/pull/1241">PR #1241</a>: Use of <strong>Clazy</strong> in GitHub workflows to surface Qt6 migration warnings.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h3><a name="p-126780-support-for-distributing-commercial-extensions-5" class="anchor" href="#p-126780-support-for-distributing-commercial-extensions-5" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Support for Distributing Commercial Extensions</h3>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Reviewed ideas for improving <strong>commercial extension support</strong>:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Leverage the existing <strong>“tiered” extension system</strong> with clearer documentation.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Introduce a <strong>“subscription” model</strong> to support access to premium or closed-source features.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Enable <strong>building closed-source extensions</strong>: may require discussion and coordination with <strong>Kitware</strong>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Proposal to support <strong>binary extension packages</strong>:</p>
<ul>
<li>Extensions could be pre-built and distributed with Slicer packages.</li>
<li>Extension Manager would handle binary installation.</li>
<li>A key challenge is <strong>maintaining compatibility across Slicer versions</strong> (release-binding would likely be required).</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h3><a name="p-126780-refactoring-slicerutil-6" class="anchor" href="#p-126780-refactoring-slicerutil-6" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Refactoring <code>Slicer.util</code></h3>
<ul>
<li>
<p>The <code>slicer.util</code> module currently contains a mix of legacy and new functionality.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Many deprecated or unstructured utilities are still present.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Instead of continuing on the deprecation path, the group recommended:</p>
<ul>
<li>A <strong>cleaner, more Pythonic reorganization</strong> of utilities.</li>
<li>Consider integrating new functionality (e.g., from SlicerSOFA) into a <strong>refactored structure</strong>, possibly under new submodules.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h3><a name="p-126780-telemetry-7" class="anchor" href="#p-126780-telemetry-7" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Telemetry</h3>
<ul>
<li>Discussed ongoing telemetry work and feedback.</li>
<li>See: <a href="https://github.com/Slicer/SlicerTelemetry/issues/2#issuecomment-3049154918">SlicerTelemetry Issue #2</a></li>
</ul>

---
