# SlicerSALT crashes when loading data

**Topic ID**: 43686
**Date**: 2025-07-11
**URL**: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/slicersalt-crashes-when-loading-data/43686

---

## Post #1 by @Chihiro_Suzuki (2025-07-11 07:42 UTC)

<p>Dear Slicer community,</p>
<p>I am currently planning to use SHPARM to compare the morphology of mammalian paranasal sinuses. To prepare for this, I have been independently studying both SlicerSALT and the SHPARM methodology. However, I have encountered an issue where the software occasionally crashes when importing data into the ShapePopulationViewer in SlicerSALT. I suspect this might be due to importing too many datasets at once. I would greatly appreciate any guidance or suggestions on how to resolve this issue.</p>

---

## Post #2 by @bpaniagua (2025-07-11 09:50 UTC)

<p>I am sorry that you are experiencing this problem. Could you provide more information about how many datasets and what type of data you are loading (extension, etc)? can you load that data in Slicer at all?</p>

---

## Post #3 by @Chihiro_Suzuki (2025-07-31 04:21 UTC)

<p>I apologize for the delay in my response. It appears that my previous message did not go through correctly.</p>
<p>Thank you very much for your prompt reply. I have 19 datasets, all in VTK format generated by SPHARM-PDM Generator. I specified the directory containing these files. Each dataset can be loaded successfully in the main Slicer application. This might be a basic issue, but since I’m a beginner with Slicer, I would really appreciate it if you could kindly recommend any helpful tutorials for getting started. I appreciate your consideration.</p>
<p>Sincerely,</p>

---

## Post #4 by @bpaniagua (2025-07-31 14:00 UTC)

<p>19 datasets should be easily handled by SPV. What is the size of each of the datasets?</p>
<p>I fear that one or some of them might be corrupted, causing the crash.</p>

---

## Post #5 by @Chihiro_Suzuki (2025-08-03 14:42 UTC)

<p>Thank you very much for your response.</p>
<p>The data I imported are in VTK format, with each file having a maximum size of approximately 989 KB.The workflow used to generate these data was as follows:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>The imported STL files were converted to NRRD format.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Landmarks were placed using the “Markups” module and saved in FCSV format.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Using the data from steps 1 and 2, the SPHARM-PDM Generator was executed to produce the VTK files.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>I was wondering whether there might have been any errors during the data preparation process, or if there is a possibility that the data imported into the Shape Population Viewer contained any issues.<br>
If there are any additional data or files that would be helpful for troubleshooting, I would greatly appreciate it if you could let me know.</p>
<p>Regards,</p>

---
