---
topic_id: 43561
title: "2025 07 01 Weekly Meeting"
date: 2025-07-01
url: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/43561
---

# 2025.07.01 Weekly Meeting

**Topic ID**: 43561
**Date**: 2025-07-01
**URL**: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/2025-07-01-weekly-meeting/43561

---

## Post #1 by @Sam_Horvath (2025-07-01 12:46 UTC)

<p>Today, we will be having our next weekly hangout at <strong>10:00 AM ET until 11:00 AM ET.</strong> a</p>
<p>Anyone is welcome to join at this link: <a href="https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware">https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware</a></p>
<hr>
<div class="discourse-post-event" data-start="2025-07-01 10:00" data-status="public" data-name="Weekly Meeting" data-url="https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware" data-timezone="America/New_York" data-allowed-groups="trust_level_0"></div>
<p><strong>Agenda:</strong></p>
<p>Please post to this thread to put a topic on the agenda!  We will try to prioritize agenda items during the meeting.</p>
<hr>
<p>Thanks<br>
Sam and J-Christophe</p>

---

## Post #2 by @jcfr (2025-07-02 01:19 UTC)

<h3><a name="p-126443-meeting-notes-1" class="anchor" href="#p-126443-meeting-notes-1" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Meeting Notes</h3>
<h4><a name="p-126443-qt6-transition-2" class="anchor" href="#p-126443-qt6-transition-2" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Qt6 Transition</h4>
<ul>
<li>The transition to <strong>Qt6</strong> is underway, led by <a class="mention" href="/u/jcfr">@jcfr</a>.</li>
<li>For progress and technical details, refer to the <a href="https://projectweek.na-mic.org/PW43_2025_Montreal/Projects/TransitionSlicerDefaultBuildFromQt5ToQt6/">Project Week 43 notes</a>.</li>
</ul>
<h4><a name="p-126443-icon-updates-3" class="anchor" href="#p-126443-icon-updates-3" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Icon Updates</h4>
<ul>
<li>
<p><span class="mention">@SamHorvath</span> is coordinating the ongoing <strong>icon refresh</strong> effort.</p>
<ul>
<li>Additional icons may be needed. Coordination with <a class="mention" href="/u/wenples">@wenples</a> is recommended for design input.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>See related <a href="https://projectweek.na-mic.org/PW43_2025_Montreal/Projects/IconRefreshIn3DSlicer/">Project Week 43 notes</a>.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<h4><a name="p-126443-vtk-95-update-4" class="anchor" href="#p-126443-vtk-95-update-4" aria-label="Heading link"></a>VTK 9.5 Update</h4>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Slicer is being updated to use <a href="https://github.com/Slicer/VTK/commits/slicer-v9.5.0-2025-06-19-e70c856bd"><code>slicer-v9.5.0-2025-06-19-e70c856bd</code></a>. See <a href="https://github.com/Slicer/Slicer/pull/8427">PR-8427</a> frmo <a class="mention" href="/u/jamesobutler">@jamesobutler</a></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Evaluate backporting <a href="https://gitlab.kitware.com/vtk/vtk/-/merge_requests/12224/diffs#note_1674239">MR-12224</a> for improved behavior or fixes.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<h4><a name="p-126443-slicerlibs-trame-integration-5" class="anchor" href="#p-126443-slicerlibs-trame-integration-5" aria-label="Heading link"></a>SlicerLibs &amp; Trame Integration</h4>
<ul>
<li>
<p><strong>Segment Editor Effects</strong>:</p>
<ul>
<li>Discussed refactoring to <strong>decouple logic from Qt</strong>.</li>
<li>Agreed that transitioning to a <strong>displayable manager-based infrastructure</strong> would be the most sustainable solution.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Layout Manager</strong>:</p>
<ul>
<li>On the <code>trame-slicer</code> side, a <strong>factory mechanism</strong> has been implemented to streamline component creation and integration.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Wheels &amp; Extension Discovery</strong>:</p>
<ul>
<li>As a proof of concept,  <code>alexy.pellegrini</code> and  <a class="mention" href="/u/thibault_pelletier">@Thibault_Pelletier</a> developed a mechanism to allow <strong>feature discovery upon installation</strong>, enhancing modularity and dynamic integration.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h4><a name="p-126443-telemetry-6" class="anchor" href="#p-126443-telemetry-6" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Telemetry</h4>
<ul>
<li>
<p>The <strong>SlicerTelemetry</strong> extension is now being integrated into the Slicer ecosystem.</p>
<ul>
<li>See: <a href="https://github.com/Slicer/ExtensionsIndex/pull/2170">PR #2170 â€“ ExtensionsIndex</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Current backend</strong> for data collection (testing phase):<br>
<a href="https://ber-dom.sao.dom.my.id/">https://ber-dom.sao.dom.my.id/</a></p>
</li>
</ul>

---

## Post #3 by @mau_igna_06 (2025-07-02 13:27 UTC)

<h1><a name="p-126452-bagdes-1" class="anchor" href="#p-126452-bagdes-1" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Bagdes</h1>
<ul>
<li>We also discussed which badges, created mainly with <a href="http://shields.io" rel="noopener nofollow ugc">shields.io</a>, would make Slicer extensions (or other open-source projects) have a README.md with more aesthetic and professional appearance.<br>
See <a href="https://github.com/SlicerIGT/SlicerBoneReconstructionPlanner#bonereconstructionplanner" rel="noopener nofollow ugc">BoneReconstructionPlanner extension</a> as example and the related <a href="https://projectweek.na-mic.org/PW43_2025_Montreal/Projects/DynamicCitationCounterBadgeForPapersWithCode/" rel="noopener nofollow ugc">Project Week page</a></li>
</ul>

---

## Post #4 by @pieper (2025-07-02 13:37 UTC)

<p>Yes, and related to what <a class="mention" href="/u/mau_igna_06">@mau_igna_06</a> mentioned we discussed if the extension cmake should have a dedicated entry for html that would be rendered on the extension manager page or if we should put html directly in the extension description text.  Html is required for displaying the badges.  For now the badges can be in the README.md of the extension repository.</p>

---
