# Project week 2020

**Topic ID**: 11165
**Date**: 2020-04-17
**URL**: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/project-week-2020/11165

---

## Post #1 by @gcsharp (2020-04-17 18:37 UTC)

<p>I’m guessing Gov. Baker’s ban on gatherings will extend into June given the latest modeling.</p>
<p>Has there been any thoughts on how to hold an effective virtual project week?</p>

---

## Post #2 by @pieper (2020-04-17 20:30 UTC)

<p>Only to the extent that I updated the project week page a few weeks ago with a link to MIT’s policy on meetings.  I think you are right, it needs to be a virtual event.  Which sort of begs the question of how it will be different than just any other week.</p>
<p><a class="mention" href="/u/tina_kapur">@Tina_Kapur</a> pulled of a  <a href="https://ncigt.org/igt-virtual">virtual workshop</a> just yesterday, so I’m sure she will think of something for project week!</p>

---

## Post #3 by @fedorov (2020-04-18 01:59 UTC)

<p>---------- Forwarded message ---------<br>
From: Kapur, Tina,Ph.D. <a href="mailto:TKAPUR@bwh.harvard.edu">TKAPUR@bwh.harvard.edu</a><br>
Date: Fri, Apr 17, 2020 at 9:49 PM<br>
Subject: [Na-mic-project-week] Cancelling Summer Project Week at MIT<br>
To: <a href="mailto:na-mic-project-week@na-mic.org">na-mic-project-week@na-mic.org</a> <a href="mailto:na-mic-project-week@na-mic.org">na-mic-project-week@na-mic.org</a></p>
<p>Hello friends and colleagues,</p>
<p>We must cancel the summer project week at MIT for this year.</p>
<p>Wishing you the best in every corner of the world,</p>
<p>-Tina</p>
<p>–</p>
<p>Tina Kapur, PhD<br>
Executive Director, Image Guided Therapy<br>
Department of Radiology<br>
Brigham and Women’s Hospital<br>
Harvard Medical School</p>

---

## Post #4 by @Tina_Kapur (2020-04-18 02:08 UTC)

<p>Yes, June project week will definitely not be a physical event. I’ve been thinking about how to make it virtual and useful, but no good ideas yet.</p>

---

## Post #5 by @rkikinis (2020-04-18 03:20 UTC)

<p>Looking for ideas and concepts from the community.<br>
Ron</p>

---
