---
topic_id: 42894
title: "Project Week 43 Preparation Meeting Tomorrow May 13Th"
date: 2025-05-12
url: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/42894
---

# Project Week 43 Preparation Meeting tomorrow (May 13th)

**Topic ID**: 42894
**Date**: 2025-05-12
**URL**: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/project-week-43-preparation-meeting-tomorrow-may-13th/42894

---

## Post #1 by @Sam_Horvath (2025-05-12 17:30 UTC)

<p>Dear Project Week community,</p>
<p>The next project week preparation meeting will be tomorrow, May 13th, at 10:00 AM ET.</p>
<p>If you are interested in discussing a possible project, please reply to this post with your topic. You may also use <a href="https://github.com/NA-MIC/ProjectWeek/issues/new?assignees=sjh26&amp;labels=project%2Cevent%3APW43_2025_Montreal&amp;projects=&amp;template=project.yml&amp;title=Project%3A+">this link</a> to propose your project idea .</p>
<p>You can join using the following link which will remain the same for all preparation meetings:</p>
<aside class="onebox allowlistedgeneric" data-onebox-src="https://etsmtl.zoom.us/j/82098172682?pwd=OHXPL5SlaLt817CzeBu8C1Pu21PvqW.1">
  <header class="source">
      <img src="https://st1.zoom.us/zoom.ico" class="site-icon" width="32" height="32">

      <a href="https://etsmtl.zoom.us/j/82098172682?pwd=OHXPL5SlaLt817CzeBu8C1Pu21PvqW.1" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Zoom</a>
  </header>

  <article class="onebox-body">
    <div class="aspect-image" style="--aspect-ratio:690/362;"><img src="https://st3.zoom.us/static/6.3.35383/image/thumb.png" class="thumbnail" width="690" height="362"></div>

<h3><a href="https://etsmtl.zoom.us/j/82098172682?pwd=OHXPL5SlaLt817CzeBu8C1Pu21PvqW.1" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Join our Cloud HD Video Meeting</a></h3>

  <p>Zoom is the leader in modern enterprise cloud communications.</p>


  </article>

  <div class="onebox-metadata">
    
    
  </div>

  <div style="clear: both"></div>
</aside>

<p>Looking forward to seeing you all tomorrow!</p>
<p>The PW organizing committee: Tina Kapur, Simon Drouin, Rafael Palomar, Sam Horvath, Theodore Aptekarev</p>

---

## Post #2 by @Sam_Horvath (2025-05-13 14:04 UTC)

<p>Discussion Topic is Structured Reports</p>

---

## Post #3 by @Tina_Kapur (2025-05-13 14:28 UTC)

<p>This is the <a href="https://github.com/NA-MIC/ProjectWeek/issues">current list</a> of proposed, non-binding projects.</p>

---
