---
topic_id: 43120
title: "Discuss Meeting Topics For Project Week 43 Prep Meetings Her"
date: 2025-05-27
url: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/43120
---

# Discuss Meeting Topics for Project Week 43 Prep Meetings Here!

**Topic ID**: 43120
**Date**: 2025-05-27
**URL**: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/discuss-meeting-topics-for-project-week-43-prep-meetings-here/43120

---

## Post #1 by @Sam_Horvath (2025-05-27 15:01 UTC)

<p>We are looking to set topics for the next few meetings, if there is a major topic you would like to have discussed in a meeting (IGT, DICOM, etc), please reply to request!</p>

---

## Post #2 by @drouin-simon (2025-05-27 15:23 UTC)

<p>I would like to have a discussion about Rendering, AR and VR in Slicer. More specifically:</p>
<ul>
<li>Status of the transition between OpenGL and WebGPU?</li>
<li>Future architecture for programmable GPU graphics</li>
<li>Status of SlicerVR, particularly in terms of interaction</li>
</ul>

---

## Post #3 by @pieper (2025-05-27 20:52 UTC)

<p>Another topic we should plan to discuss is annotation infrastructure for groups that want to collaborate on annotating large datasets in order to train AI models.  Several implementations have been proposed and when the topic came up on a recent project week planning call there was a lot of interest.</p>

---
