---
topic_id: 39903
title: "2024 10 29 Weekly Meeting"
date: 2024-10-28
url: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/39903
---

# 2024.10.29 Weekly Meeting

**Topic ID**: 39903
**Date**: 2024-10-28
**URL**: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/2024-10-29-weekly-meeting/39903

---

## Post #1 by @Sam_Horvath (2024-10-28 20:39 UTC)

<p>Tomorrow, we will be having our next weekly hangout at <strong>10:00 AM ET until 11:00 AM ET</strong></p>
<p>Anyone is welcome to join at this link: <a href="https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware">https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware</a></p>
<hr>
<div class="discourse-post-event" data-start="2024-10-29 10:00" data-status="public" data-name="Weekly Meeting" data-url="https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware" data-timezone="America/New_York" data-allowed-groups="trust_level_0"></div>
<p><strong>Agenda:</strong></p>
<p>Please post to this thread to put a topic on the agenda!  We will try to prioritize agenda items during the meeting.</p>
<hr>
<p>Thanks<br>
Sam and J-Christophe</p>

---

## Post #2 by @RafaelPalomar (2024-10-29 13:00 UTC)

<p>I would like to discuss the new <code>SofaParameterNodeWrapper</code> in <a href="https://github.com/Slicer/SlicerSOFA/pull/27" class="inline-onebox" rel="noopener nofollow ugc">SofaParameterNodeWrapper by RafaelPalomar · Pull Request #27 · Slicer/SlicerSOFA · GitHub</a></p>

---

## Post #3 by @jcfr (2024-11-05 15:10 UTC)

<h3><a name="p-119132-meeting-notes-1" class="anchor" href="#p-119132-meeting-notes-1" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Meeting Notes</h3>
<h4><a name="p-119132-slicer-58-release-2" class="anchor" href="#p-119132-slicer-58-release-2" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Slicer 5.8 Release</h4>
<ul>
<li>The update of the DCMTK version used in Slicer, from 3.6.6 to 3.6.8 (based on <a href="https://github.com/DCMTK/dcmtk/commit/d1fb197927fd4178b5a24e0f0dba6f8d785a8f93">DCMTK commit d1fb19792</a> from October 2024), is nearly complete.</li>
<li>The release process for Slicer 5.8 is expected to begin next week.</li>
</ul>
<hr>
<h4><a name="p-119132-slicersofa-updates-3" class="anchor" href="#p-119132-slicersofa-updates-3" aria-label="Heading link"></a>SlicerSOFA Updates</h4>
<ul>
<li>Discussed <a href="https://github.com/Slicer/SlicerSOFA/pull/27">PR #27</a>, which introduces the <code>SofaParameterNodeWrapper</code> to manage data communication between MRML and SOFA.</li>
</ul>
<hr>
<h4><a name="p-119132-slicerautoscoper-4" class="anchor" href="#p-119132-slicerautoscoper-4" aria-label="Heading link"></a>SlicerAutoScoper</h4>
<ul>
<li>Reviewed a renaming issue in the Sequences module.</li>
<li>It may require a debug build and debugging tools to identify if it is a bug needing resolution.</li>
</ul>
<hr>
<h4><a name="p-119132-slicervirtualreality-5" class="anchor" href="#p-119132-slicervirtualreality-5" aria-label="Heading link"></a>SlicerVirtualReality</h4>
<ul>
<li>Ongoing work to resolve bugs with OpenXR compatibility.</li>
<li>Improved interaction with the scene would benefit SlicerHeart and other applications.</li>
<li>VR integration could be valuable for interacting with SlicerSOFA simulations.</li>
</ul>
<hr>
<h4><a name="p-119132-slicertelemetry-6" class="anchor" href="#p-119132-slicertelemetry-6" aria-label="Heading link"></a>SlicerTelemetry</h4>
<ul>
<li>Implemented new statistics display functionality using <code>WebWidget</code>.</li>
</ul>
<hr>
<h4><a name="p-119132-slicermorphodepot-7" class="anchor" href="#p-119132-slicermorphodepot-7" aria-label="Heading link"></a>SlicerMorphoDepot</h4>
<ul>
<li>Progress continues, enabling collaborative segmentation with GitHub as a back-end. More details at <a href="https://github.com/pieper/SlicerMorphoDepot">SlicerMorphoDepot on GitHub</a>.</li>
</ul>
<hr>
<h4><a name="p-119132-terminology-and-colortable-8" class="anchor" href="#p-119132-terminology-and-colortable-8" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Terminology and ColorTable</h4>
<ul>
<li>Moving forward with plans to unify Terminology and ColorTable functionalities.</li>
<li>Introduced a custom terminology, <code>99-slicer</code>, designed to support collaborative sharing of anatomical codes (e.g., <code>kidney.1</code>, <code>kidney.2</code>, etc.).</li>
<li>Leveraging <a href="http://Protocols.io">Protocols.io</a> could be useful in supporting these custom codes.</li>
<li>Relevant pull requests and issues:
<ul>
<li><a href="https://github.com/Slicer/Slicer/pull/8011">PR #8011</a>: Enhances the use of standard terminology in the segments table.</li>
<li><a href="https://github.com/Slicer/Slicer/issues/8005">Issue #8005</a>: Improvements to the Terminologies module.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

---
