---
topic_id: 42726
title: "Project Week 43 Preparation Meeting Tomorrow Apr 29"
date: 2025-04-28
url: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/42726
---

# Project Week 43 preparation meeting tomorrow (Apr 29)

**Topic ID**: 42726
**Date**: 2025-04-28
**URL**: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/project-week-43-preparation-meeting-tomorrow-apr-29/42726

---

## Post #1 by @RafaelPalomar (2025-04-28 17:22 UTC)

<p>Dear Project Week community,</p>
<p>We are pleased to announce that reparation meetings for Project Week 43 will start next Tuesday, April 29th, at 10:00 AM ET.</p>
<p>You can join using the following link which will remain the same for all preparation meetings:</p>
<aside class="onebox allowlistedgeneric" data-onebox-src="https://etsmtl.zoom.us/j/82098172682?pwd=OHXPL5SlaLt817CzeBu8C1Pu21PvqW.1">
  <header class="source">
      <img src="https://us02st1.zoom.us/zoom.ico" class="site-icon" width="32" height="32">

      <a href="https://etsmtl.zoom.us/j/82098172682?pwd=OHXPL5SlaLt817CzeBu8C1Pu21PvqW.1" target="_blank" rel="noopener nofollow ugc">Zoom</a>
  </header>

  <article class="onebox-body">
    <div class="aspect-image" style="--aspect-ratio:690/362;"><img src="https://us02st3.zoom.us/static/6.3.34727/image/thumb.png" class="thumbnail" width="690" height="362"></div>

<h3><a href="https://etsmtl.zoom.us/j/82098172682?pwd=OHXPL5SlaLt817CzeBu8C1Pu21PvqW.1" target="_blank" rel="noopener nofollow ugc">Join our Cloud HD Video Meeting</a></h3>

  <p>Zoom is the leader in modern enterprise cloud communications.</p>


  </article>

  <div class="onebox-metadata">
    
    
  </div>

  <div style="clear: both"></div>
</aside>

<p>Looking forward to seing you all next week!</p>
<p>The PW organizing committee: Tina Kapur, Simon Drouin, Rafael Palomar, Sam Horvath, Theodore Aptekarev</p>

---

## Post #2 by @Sam_Horvath (2025-04-29 14:36 UTC)

<p>Example project request reply</p>

---

## Post #3 by @Tina_Kapur (2025-04-29 14:38 UTC)

<p>can we use discourse to keep track of project discussions at some level during our prep meetings?</p>

---

## Post #4 by @Sam_Horvath (2025-04-29 14:39 UTC)

<p>Probably!   Seems like a good idea</p>

---

## Post #5 by @jcfr (2025-05-06 14:16 UTC)

<h3><a name="p-124881-meeting-notes-1" class="anchor" href="#p-124881-meeting-notes-1" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Meeting notes</h3>
<h4><a name="p-124881-organizational-planning-2" class="anchor" href="#p-124881-organizational-planning-2" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Organizational Planning</h4>
<ul>
<li>
<p><strong>Announcement Channels</strong><br>
Post the initial Project Week call notice in both the <a href="https://discourse.slicer.org/c/announcements/7">Announcements</a> and the <a href="https://discourse.slicer.org/c/community/project-week/17">Community → Project Weeks</a> categories on Slicer Discourse to reach a wider audience.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Repository Updates</strong><br>
Remove the “proposal issue” template from the <a href="https://github.com/NA-MIC/ProjectWeek">NA-MIC/ProjectWeek</a> GitHub repository.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Registration Fees</strong><br>
Anticipate a slight increase in registration cost this year to cover non‑vegetarian meal options.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Community Support</strong><br>
Continue maintaining the Discord server as the real‑time collaboration hub.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Preparation Meeting</strong><br>
Schedule and announce the prep meeting in the Community → Project Weeks category. This will:</p>
<ol>
<li>Allow participants to post questions and discussion topics in advance.</li>
<li>Ensure we address all Discourse‑posted questions at the start of the meeting.</li>
<li>Enable collaborative note‑taking via <a href="https://hackmd.io/">HackMD</a>, with a summarized follow‑up post added to the relevant Discourse thread.</li>
</ol>
</li>
</ul>
<h4><a name="p-124881-slicersofa-discussion-3" class="anchor" href="#p-124881-slicersofa-discussion-3" aria-label="Heading link"></a>SlicerSOFA Discussion</h4>
<ul>
<li>
<p><strong>In‑Person Attendees</strong><br>
Paul, Rafael, and Steve will all be on‑site during Project Week.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Key Topics</strong></p>
<ol>
<li>Packaging the SlicerSOFA extension for easy installation and updates.</li>
<li>Defining a simulation protocol in 3D Slicer to support distributed (multiprocess/multiphysics) workflows.</li>
</ol>
</li>
</ul>

---
