# 2025.10.07 Weekly Meeting

**Topic ID**: 44680
**Date**: 2025-10-06
**URL**: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/2025-10-07-weekly-meeting/44680

---

## Post #1 by @Sam_Horvath (2025-10-06 16:03 UTC)

<p>Tomorrow, we will be having our next weekly hangout at <strong>10:00 AM ET until 11:00 AM ET.</strong> a</p>
<p>Anyone is welcome to join at this link: <a href="https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware">https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware</a></p>
<hr>
<div class="discourse-post-event" data-start="2025-10-07 10:00" data-status="public" data-name="Weekly Meeting" data-url="https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware" data-timezone="America/New_York" data-allowed-groups="trust_level_0"></div>
<p><strong>Agenda:</strong></p>
<p>Please post to this thread to put a topic on the agenda!  We will try to prioritize agenda items during the meeting.</p>
<hr>
<p>Thanks<br>
Sam and J-Christophe</p>

---

## Post #2 by @pieper (2025-10-06 16:05 UTC)

<p>I have another meeting I need to attend at 10 tomorrow, but if people are still around at 11 I’d like to hear about where we are with the release and the Qt6 infrastructure.</p>

---

## Post #3 by @jcfr (2025-10-07 14:12 UTC)

<aside class="quote no-group" data-username="pieper" data-post="2" data-topic="44680">
<div class="title">
<div class="quote-controls"></div>
<img alt="" width="24" height="24" src="https://sea2.discourse-cdn.com/flex002/user_avatar/discourse.slicer.org/pieper/48/8_2.png" class="avatar"> pieper:</div>
<blockquote>
<p>where we are with the release and the Qt6 infrastructure</p>
</blockquote>
</aside>
<p>Changes are now being integrated in CTK &amp; Slicer. Next to be merged are support for Python3 CMake module as well as automoc.</p>

---

## Post #4 by @jcfr (2025-10-14 14:18 UTC)

<h2><a name="p-129158-meeting-notes-1" class="anchor" href="#p-129158-meeting-notes-1" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Meeting Notes</h2>
<h3><a name="p-129158-handling-build-issues-related-to-dependencies-2" class="anchor" href="#p-129158-handling-build-issues-related-to-dependencies-2" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Handling Build Issues Related to Dependencies</h3>
<ul>
<li>When facing errors related to dependencies, it’s generally more effective to perform a <strong>clean build</strong>.</li>
<li>If preserving existing source trees is desired, it’s acceptable to remove only the directories associated with dependencies to reset their build state.</li>
</ul>
<h3><a name="p-129158-telemetry-3" class="anchor" href="#p-129158-telemetry-3" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Telemetry</h3>
<p><strong>Planned Improvements:</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>Display <strong>event names</strong> across all components simultaneously.</li>
<li>Introduce a <strong>tool to selectively delete statistics</strong>.</li>
<li>Add <strong>year labels</strong> to the time range selector, or provide explicit <strong>start and end date selection</strong>.</li>
<li>Follow up on <strong>official telemetry web service hosting</strong> – action item assigned to <a class="mention" href="/u/jcfr">@jcfr</a>.</li>
</ul>
<p><div class="lightbox-wrapper"><a class="lightbox" href="https://us1.discourse-cdn.com/flex002/uploads/slicer/original/3X/e/e/ee81eeede5ff19922f00c824f04ac74701228d23.png" data-download-href="/uploads/short-url/y1W1akl10NQy1Kq3X83YKil2HVF.png?dl=1" title="image"><img src="https://us1.discourse-cdn.com/flex002/uploads/slicer/optimized/3X/e/e/ee81eeede5ff19922f00c824f04ac74701228d23_2_517x243.png" alt="image" data-base62-sha1="y1W1akl10NQy1Kq3X83YKil2HVF" width="517" height="243" srcset="https://us1.discourse-cdn.com/flex002/uploads/slicer/optimized/3X/e/e/ee81eeede5ff19922f00c824f04ac74701228d23_2_517x243.png, https://us1.discourse-cdn.com/flex002/uploads/slicer/optimized/3X/e/e/ee81eeede5ff19922f00c824f04ac74701228d23_2_775x364.png 1.5x, https://us1.discourse-cdn.com/flex002/uploads/slicer/optimized/3X/e/e/ee81eeede5ff19922f00c824f04ac74701228d23_2_1034x486.png 2x" data-dominant-color="F3F5F7"><div class="meta"><svg class="fa d-icon d-icon-far-image svg-icon" aria-hidden="true"><use href="#far-image"></use></svg><span class="filename">image</span><span class="informations">2515×1182 330 KB</span><svg class="fa d-icon d-icon-discourse-expand svg-icon" aria-hidden="true"><use href="#discourse-expand"></use></svg></div></a></div></p>
<h3><a name="p-129158-support-for-light-box-4" class="anchor" href="#p-129158-support-for-light-box-4" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Support for Light Box</h3>
<ul>
<li>
<p>While reviewing <a href="https://github.com/Slicer/Slicer/pull/8773">PR-8773</a> – <em>“ENH: Add vtkMRMLScriptedLightBoxRendererManagerProxy”</em> – the team decided to <strong>remove support for Light Box</strong> in Slicer.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>As described in <a href="https://github.com/Slicer/Slicer/issues/4749">Issue #4749</a> (<em>“Replace dynamic lightbox views with static image generation”</em>), the feature:</p>
<ul>
<li>Is <strong>unreliable</strong> in many use cases.</li>
<li>Adds <strong>significant complexity</strong> to the rendering system.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Moving forward, static image generation will be favored over dynamic Light Box rendering.</p>
</li>
</ul>

---
