---
topic_id: 44363
title: "Digital Orthognathic Planning: A Full Workflow for Surgeons & Trainees using  3D Slicer"
date: 2025-09-05
url: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/44363
last_bumped: 2026-07-23T06:15:16.803Z
---

# Digital Orthognathic Planning: A Full Workflow for Surgeons & Trainees using  3D Slicer

**Topic ID**: 44363
**Date**: 2025-09-05
**URL**: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/digital-orthognathic-planning-a-full-workflow-for-surgeons-trainees-using-3d-slicer/44363

---

## Post #1 by @manjula (2025-09-05 16:57 UTC)

<p>I’ve created a comprehensive video tutorial that walks through my full workflow for performing virtual surgical planning (VSP) for orthognathic surgery.</p>
<p>The video covers everything from aligning CT scans and intra-oral scan data to performing virtual osteotomies and designing the final surgical splint. I’ve focused on using only 3D Slicer.</p>
<p>You can watch the full tutorial here: <a href="https://youtu.be/4I-9qnmvCLY?si=lsGTCZCSqWOpJai_" rel="noopener nofollow ugc">https://youtu.be/4I-9qnmvCLY?si=lsGTCZCSqWOpJai_</a></p>
<p>I hope this resource is helpful for other surgeons, residents, and anyone interested in advancing their digital planning skills. Feedback and discussion are welcome!</p>
<p>Thank You</p>

---

## Post #2 by @abhijeet2410 (2026-07-23 06:15 UTC)

<p>Thank you so much for interesting work. How can we accurately register an intraoral scan to teeth extracted from CBCT? We used FastModelAlign to align the intraoral scan with the CBCT tooth segmentation. However, the registration evaluation reported a distance of approximately 10.30 mm, or about 1 cm. This error is unacceptable for real time application because it could create significant positional errors in the complete 3D structure. Nevertheless, we should not conclude that FastModelAlign itself caused geometric distortion until we confirm which distance metric was measured and whether both input models contained the same anatomical regions. How can we validate the registration result and determine whether the transform generated by FastModelAlign is reliable?</p>

---
