# 2026.02.10 Weekly Meeting

**Topic ID**: 46076
**Date**: 2026-02-06
**URL**: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/2026-02-10-weekly-meeting/46076

---

## Post #1 by @Sam_Horvath (2026-02-06 17:23 UTC)

<p>Next Tuesday, we will be having our next weekly hangout at <strong>10:00 AM ET until 11:00 AM ET.</strong></p>
<p>Anyone is welcome to join at this link: <a href="https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware">https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware</a></p>
<hr>
<div class="discourse-post-event" data-start="2026-02-10 10:00" data-status="public" data-name="Weekly Meeting" data-url="https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware" data-timezone="America/New_York" data-allowed-groups="trust_level_0"></div>
<p><strong>Agenda:</strong></p>
<p>Please post to this thread to put a topic on the agenda!  We will try to prioritize agenda items during the meeting.</p>
<hr>
<p>Thanks<br>
Sam and Ebrahim</p>

---

## Post #2 by @ebrahim (2026-02-10 16:35 UTC)

<p>Notes from the meeting</p>
<h2><a name="p-131881-windows-factory-machine-updates-ebrahim-1" class="anchor" href="#p-131881-windows-factory-machine-updates-ebrahim-1" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Windows factory machine updates (Ebrahim)</h2>
<ul>
<li>We’d like to clear out test errors before the Qt6 switch so we want to fix the auto-login issues.</li>
<li>New account was created and ready to have auto-login enabled, but we have to set up the files and nightly tasks.</li>
<li>It should be easy because most of the setup in up in <code>C:\D</code> and not user space. Will update <a href="https://github.com/Slicer/DashboardScripts/">dashboard scripts repo</a> with any changes after.</li>
</ul>
<h2><a name="p-131881-pip_install-changes-ebrahim-2" class="anchor" href="#p-131881-pip_install-changes-ebrahim-2" aria-label="Heading link"></a><code>pip_install</code> changes  (Ebrahim)</h2>
<ul>
<li><a href="https://github.com/Slicer/Slicer/pull/9010">Slicer#9010</a></li>
<li>Planned updates until it’s up for review:
<ul>
<li>type annotations</li>
<li>prompt to restart if it’s needed in <code>pip_ensure</code></li>
<li>try out on nnunet extension as a test case</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h2><a name="p-131881-disabling-mrmlidio-david-andras-3" class="anchor" href="#p-131881-disabling-mrmlidio-david-andras-3" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Disabling MRMLIDIO (David, Andras)</h2>
<p>Now <a href="https://github.com/Slicer/Slicer/pull/9023">disabling MRMLIDIO by default</a>. What it does we can do in Python.</p>
<h2><a name="p-131881-telemetry-bernardo-sam-4" class="anchor" href="#p-131881-telemetry-bernardo-sam-4" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Telemetry (Bernardo, Sam)</h2>
<ul>
<li>Sam is planning to get the Telemetry site sorted out soon</li>
<li>WSGI necessary to serve the application; KW IT team will handle deployment</li>
<li>Thoughts on <a href="https://opentelemetry.io/docs/what-is-opentelemetry/">opentelemetry</a>?
<ul>
<li>Seems over-complicated for our needs.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h2><a name="p-131881-slicer-portal-project-andras-thibault-5" class="anchor" href="#p-131881-slicer-portal-project-andras-thibault-5" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Slicer Portal project (Andras, Thibault)</h2>
<ul>
<li>Working with a web dev to create a portal where users can log in and launch Slicer Trame instances, and upload or share data</li>
<li>Intended to be a public demo</li>
<li>Discussed on cost and hosting, what would be in the first iteration</li>
<li>Performance bottleneck in SlicerTrame is mainly CPU due to the need for jpeg serialization. Discussed future optimizations that are coming.</li>
</ul>
<h2><a name="p-131881-add-to-slicersofa-team-rafael-6" class="anchor" href="#p-131881-add-to-slicersofa-team-rafael-6" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Add to SlicerSOFA team (Rafael)</h2>
<ul>
<li>SlicerSOFA repo has <a href="https://github.com/orgs/Slicer/teams/slicer-sofa-maintainers">SlicerSOFA mainteners group</a>, we should add <span class="mention">@bakpaul</span> to it.</li>
<li>(Who can do it?) (looks like Rafeal can do it)</li>
</ul>

---
