# 2024.07.02 Weekly Meeting

**Topic ID**: 37131
**Date**: 2024-07-01
**URL**: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/2024-07-02-weekly-meeting/37131

---

## Post #1 by @Sam_Horvath (2024-07-01 19:29 UTC)

<p>Tomorrow, we will be having our next weekly hangout at <strong>10:00 AM ET until 11:00 AM ET</strong></p>
<p>Anyone is welcome to join at this link: <a href="https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware">https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware</a></p>
<hr>
<div class="discourse-post-event" data-start="2024-07-02 10:00" data-status="public" data-name="Weekly Meeting" data-url="https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware" data-timezone="America/New_York" data-allowed-groups="trust_level_0"></div>
<p><strong>Agenda:</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>PW debrief</li>
</ul>
<p>Please post to this thread to put a topic on the agenda!  We will try to prioritize agenda items during the meeting.</p>
<hr>
<p>Thanks<br>
Sam and J-Christophe</p>

---

## Post #2 by @pieper (2024-07-01 20:03 UTC)

<p>Looks like Iâ€™m doublebooked tomorrow so Iâ€™ll miss the dev meeting.  Was great to see everyone at project week <img src="https://emoji.discourse-cdn.com/twitter/+1.png?v=12" title=":+1:" class="emoji" alt=":+1:" loading="lazy" width="20" height="20"></p>

---

## Post #3 by @RafaelPalomar (2024-07-02 09:46 UTC)

<p>Slicer-SOFA:</p>
<ul>
<li>Transfer to Slicer organization</li>
<li>Status of the Slicer-SOFA extension (<a href="https://github.com/RafaelPalomar/SlicerSOFA/pull/22" rel="noopener nofollow ugc">RafaelPalomar/SlicerSOFA#22</a>)</li>
<li>LVAD Multimaterial simulation updates (<a href="https://github.com/RafaelPalomar/SlicerSOFA/tree/feature/multimaterial_simulation" rel="noopener nofollow ugc">RafaelPalomar/SlicerSOFA/tree/multimaterial-simulation</a>)</li>
</ul>

---

## Post #4 by @allemangd (2024-07-02 14:09 UTC)

<p>Check-in on status of <a href="https://github.com/Slicer/Slicer/issues/7707" class="inline-onebox" rel="noopener nofollow ugc">Allow scripted modules to declare and lazily install pip requirements Â· Issue #7707 Â· Slicer/Slicer Â· GitHub</a></p>
<p>I will have some free cycles over the next couple weeks that I could devote to implementing this; but since I was not able to attend the relevant discussions last week I wanted to check in and see if the situation has changed since creating that issue.</p>

---

## Post #5 by @jcfr (2024-07-02 18:16 UTC)

<h3><a name="p-113524-meeting-notes-1" class="anchor" href="#p-113524-meeting-notes-1" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Meeting notes</h3>
<ul>
<li>
<p>SlicerSOFA</p>
<ul>
<li>As macOS packaging may require some additional work, will probably move forward with integration once both Windows and Linux ar confirmed to work.</li>
<li>Pull request updating build-system: <a href="https://github.com/RafaelPalomar/SlicerSOFA/pull/22">https://github.com/RafaelPalomar/SlicerSOFA/pull/22</a></li>
<li>Discussed setting up a monthly meeting to discuss simulation related questions</li>
<li>Will make sure to use a driving example based on publicly available data</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>CTKAppLauncher</p>
<ul>
<li>Integrate <a href="https://github.com/commontk/AppLauncher/pull/127" class="inline-onebox">Fix passing of non-ASCII characters as command-line arguments by lassoan Â· Pull Request #127 Â· commontk/AppLauncher Â· GitHub</a></li>
<li>Look into transitioning CI to use only GitHub Actions</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Building extensions for development (with dependencies)</p>
<ul>
<li>Build the extension index (you can customize the <code>.json</code> file to build a subset)</li>
<li>Launch Slicer with the generated <code>.ini</code> files. These should account for dependencies</li>
<li>See <a href="https://slicer.readthedocs.io/en/latest/developer_guide/extensions.html#build-list-of-extensions-manually" class="inline-onebox">Extensions â€” 3D Slicer documentation</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Major version to use in next Slicer release</p>
<ul>
<li>Discussed if next major version should remain <code>5</code> or be updated to <code>6</code></li>
<li>Next release will likely be <code>5.8</code> and will switch to <code>6.0</code> after we finalize the integration of new theme (and most likely transition to Qt6)</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Theme</p>
<ul>
<li>If extension developers provide only one version of the icon (light or dark, svg or png, we will look into adding automatic conversion (aka recoloring)</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Virtual environment support</p>
<ul>
<li><a href="https://github.com/Slicer/Slicer/issues/7827" class="inline-onebox">Management of python package conflicts between extensions Â· Issue #7827 Â· Slicer/Slicer Â· GitHub</a></li>
<li><a href="https://github.com/Slicer/Slicer/issues/7707" class="inline-onebox">Allow scripted modules to declare and lazily install pip requirements Â· Issue #7707 Â· Slicer/Slicer Â· GitHub</a></li>
<li>UV-based equivalent functionaly of <code>pipx</code>. See <a href="https://github.com/robinvandernoord/uvx2" class="inline-onebox">GitHub - robinvandernoord/uvenv: uvenv: pipx for uv (ðŸ¦€) on Linux and macOS</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

---
