---
topic_id: 45026
title: "2025 11 11 Weekly Meeting"
date: 2025-11-10
url: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/45026
---

# 2025.11.11 Weekly Meeting

**Topic ID**: 45026
**Date**: 2025-11-10
**URL**: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/2025-11-11-weekly-meeting/45026

---

## Post #1 by @Sam_Horvath (2025-11-10 18:53 UTC)

<p>Tomorrow, we will be having our next weekly hangout at <strong>10:00 AM ET until 11:00 AM ET.</strong> a</p>
<p>Anyone is welcome to join at this link: <a href="https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware">https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware</a></p>
<hr>
<div class="discourse-post-event" data-start="2025-11-11 10:00" data-status="public" data-name="Weekly Meeting" data-url="https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware" data-timezone="America/New_York" data-allowed-groups="trust_level_0"></div>
<p><strong>Agenda:</strong></p>
<p>Please post to this thread to put a topic on the agenda!  We will try to prioritize agenda items during the meeting.</p>
<hr>
<p>Thanks<br>
Sam and Ebrahim</p>

---

## Post #2 by @dzenanz (2025-11-10 18:56 UTC)

<p>I plan to work on <a href="https://github.com/Slicer/Slicer/issues/7633" rel="noopener nofollow ugc">issue 7633</a>, so I would like to gather any feedback/opinions more frequent Slicer developers have about it.</p>

---

## Post #3 by @ebrahim (2025-11-11 17:02 UTC)

<p>Notes from the meeting</p>
<h3><a name="p-129778-qt6-support-1" class="anchor" href="#p-129778-qt6-support-1" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Qt6 support</h3>
<p><a href="https://github.com/Slicer/Slicer/pull/8825">PR-8825</a> is ready for review.</p>
<ul>
<li><a class="mention" href="/u/jcfr">@jcfr</a> tested it on linux.</li>
<li><span class="mention">@sjh26</span> will test on windows.</li>
<li>masOS build can also be verified locally by building against Qt6 installed using either homebrew or the Qt maintenance tool.</li>
</ul>
<p>Support for Preview builds:</p>
<ul>
<li>Windows: Qt 6.9.1 is already installed on `bluestreak.</li>
<li>Linux: A new docker image including Qt6 need to be contribued to the SlicerBuildEnvironment projeflct.</li>
<li>macOS: the <code>commontk/qt-easy-build</code> project should be updated to have a new branch <code>6.9.1</code> (or newer) so that we could build it from source on <code>computron</code></li>
</ul>
<h3><a name="p-129778-project-week-2" class="anchor" href="#p-129778-project-week-2" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Project Week</h3>
<p><a href="https://projectweek.na-mic.org/PW44_2026_GranCanaria/">Project week 44</a><br>
There are 8-10 prep meetings that need to start happening soon and people were discussing when to do that.</p>
<h3><a name="p-129778-h-2d-transform-support-3" class="anchor" href="#p-129778-h-2d-transform-support-3" aria-label="Heading link"></a>2D transform support</h3>
<p><a href="https://github.com/Slicer/Slicer/issues/7633">Issue-7633</a>, on support for loading 2D transforms, is about to be worked on by Dženan.</p>
<h3><a name="p-129778-extensions-that-broke-from-58-to-510-4" class="anchor" href="#p-129778-extensions-that-broke-from-58-to-510-4" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Extensions that broke from 5.8 to 5.10</h3>
<p>There are some extensions that have been broken in nightly but that did work 5.8. After making 5.10 be the stable release, users may notice the discontinuity in extension support from 5.8 to 5.10.</p>
<p>Until the extensions are updated we can add this link to a banner on the download site to help people find Slicer 5.8 if they need to use one of the broken extensions: <a href="https://download.slicer.org/?revision=33241" class="inline-onebox">Download 3D Slicer | 3D Slicer</a></p>

---

## Post #5 by @Sam_Horvath (2025-11-17 15:35 UTC)

<p>Project Week Meeting start on Tuesday:</p>
<aside class="quote quote-modified" data-post="1" data-topic="45086">
  <div class="title">
    <div class="quote-controls"></div>
    <img alt="" width="24" height="24" src="https://sea2.discourse-cdn.com/flex002/user_avatar/discourse.slicer.org/sam_horvath/48/3092_2.png" class="avatar">
    <div class="quote-title__text-content">
      <a href="https://discourse.slicer.org/t/project-week-44-meetings-start-next-tuesday/45086">Project Week 44 Meetings start next Tuesday!</a> <a class="badge-category__wrapper " href="/c/community/project-week/17"><span data-category-id="17" style="--category-badge-color: #AB9364; --category-badge-text-color: #000000; --parent-category-badge-color: #F7941D;" data-parent-category-id="12" data-drop-close="true" class="badge-category --style-square --has-parent" title="This category is for posting announcements related to “Project Week” events."><span class="badge-category__name">Project Week</span></span></a>
    </div>
  </div>
  <blockquote>
    Dear Project Week community, 
The first prep meeting for Project Week 44 will be next Tuesday, Nov 18, at 10:00 AM ET.  Please join us as we kick off planning for the next event. 
You can join using the following link which will remain the same for all preparation meetings: 


Looking forward to seeing you all next week! 
The PW organizing committee: Tina Kapur, Simon Drouin, Rafael Palomar, Sam Horvath, Theodore Aptekarev 

Project Week #44 will be held Jan 26-30, 2026, in Las Palmas, Gran Cana…
  </blockquote>
</aside>


---
