# 2025.11.25 Weekly Meeting

**Topic ID**: 45215
**Date**: 2025-11-24
**URL**: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/2025-11-25-weekly-meeting/45215

---

## Post #1 by @Sam_Horvath (2025-11-24 15:33 UTC)

<p>Tomorrow, we will be having our next weekly hangout at <strong>11:00 AM ET until 12:00 PM ET.</strong> after the project week meetings.  We will be re-using the same meeting link</p>
<p>Anyone is welcome to join at this link: <a href="https://etsmtl.zoom.us/j/98196156238?pwd=q6SKGglkISvueUC2Xy2z38oBz6QKtn.1" class="inline-onebox">Launch Meeting - Zoom</a></p>
<hr>
<div class="discourse-post-event" data-start="2025-11-25 11:00" data-status="public" data-name="Weekly Meeting" data-url="https://etsmtl.zoom.us/j/98196156238?pwd=q6SKGglkISvueUC2Xy2z38oBz6QKtn.1" data-timezone="America/New_York" data-allowed-groups="trust_level_0"></div>
<p><strong>Agenda:</strong></p>
<p>Please post to this thread to put a topic on the agenda!  We will try to prioritize agenda items during the meeting.</p>
<hr>
<p>Thanks<br>
Sam and Ebrahim</p>

---

## Post #2 by @Sunderlandkyl (2025-11-24 21:08 UTC)

<p>I would like to discuss the current state of the Girder server used for the extension manager.</p>
<p>I will need to modify the the <a href="https://github.com/girder/slicer_package_manager/" rel="noopener nofollow ugc">slicer_package_manager</a> to include extension DICOM support metadata. It would be good to know the process + who is responsible for maintaining the server so that we know the process for fixing/updating the server.</p>

---

## Post #3 by @Sam_Horvath (2025-11-25 15:17 UTC)

<p>Sounds good!  The slicer package manager is deployed at <a href="http://slicer-packages.kitware.com">slicer-packages.kitware.com</a>, and is managed by Kitware. We have internal documentation for updating/maintaining the server.</p>
<p>Public documentation is available here: <a href="https://slicer-package-manager.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html" class="inline-onebox">Welcome to Slicer Package Manager’s documentation! — Slicer Package Manager 0.1.0 documentation</a></p>

---

## Post #4 by @Sam_Horvath (2025-11-25 16:43 UTC)

<ul>
<li>Discussed process for updating package manager</li>
<li>Status of Qt6 compatibility merged to main</li>
<li>Sam to fix PerkTutor and similar extension issues
<ul>
<li><code>ui_*.h</code> visibility issues</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>Devcontainer PR to be merged once out of draft, It would be nice to (per jcfr):
<ul>
<li>have one commit or provide the squash commit message that we will need to use</li>
<li>update the developer documentation as part of this pull request</li>
<li>identify changes that would need to be done when we release (if any)</li>
<li>consider reviewing <a href="https://github.com/Slicer/SlicerBuildEnvironment" class="inline-onebox">GitHub - Slicer/SlicerBuildEnvironment: A repository of scripts to set up a Slicer build environment.</a> and update it to reference it</li>
<li>enforce running the devcontainer only with the main branch</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<p>See notes at:  <a href="https://hackmd.io/@ChBPFan4QJmUqiwaFUA4VQ/B1O3B87WZg/edit" class="inline-onebox">Slicer Meeting Notes Nov 25 2025 - HackMD</a></p>

---
