---
topic_id: 45088
title: "2025 11 18 Weekly Meeting After Project Week Meeting"
date: 2025-11-14
url: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/45088
---

# 2025.11.18 Weekly Meeting - After Project Week Meeting

**Topic ID**: 45088
**Date**: 2025-11-14
**URL**: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/2025-11-18-weekly-meeting-after-project-week-meeting/45088

---

## Post #1 by @Sam_Horvath (2025-11-14 21:05 UTC)

<p>Next Tuesday, we will be having our next weekly hangout at <strong>11:00 AM ET until 12:00 PM ET.</strong> after the project week meetings.  We will be re-using the same meeting link</p>
<p>Anyone is welcome to join at this link: <a href="https://etsmtl.zoom.us/j/98196156238?pwd=q6SKGglkISvueUC2Xy2z38oBz6QKtn.1" class="inline-onebox">Launch Meeting - Zoom</a></p>
<hr>
<div class="discourse-post-event" data-start="2025-11-18 11:00" data-status="public" data-name="Weekly Meeting" data-url="https://etsmtl.zoom.us/j/98196156238?pwd=q6SKGglkISvueUC2Xy2z38oBz6QKtn.1" data-timezone="America/New_York" data-allowed-groups="trust_level_0"></div>
<p><strong>Agenda:</strong></p>
<p>Please post to this thread to put a topic on the agenda!  We will try to prioritize agenda items during the meeting.</p>
<hr>
<p>Thanks<br>
Sam and Ebrahim</p>

---

## Post #2 by @ebrahim (2025-11-18 20:24 UTC)

<p>Notes from this week’s hangout</p>
<h2><a name="p-129959-slicerigt-1" class="anchor" href="#p-129959-slicerigt-1" aria-label="Heading link"></a>SlicerIGT</h2>
<ul>
<li>Sam close to updating SlicerIGT and getting it to build for Slicer 5.10</li>
</ul>
<h2><a name="p-129959-qt6-2" class="anchor" href="#p-129959-qt6-2" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Qt6</h2>
<ul>
<li>Plan is to move towards enabling Qt6 after thanksgiving time to let people start testing that on nightly. The main challenge is the changes in the newly cmake-ified build system for Qt6 (automoc, etc.).</li>
<li>Current work taking place in <a href="https://github.com/Slicer/Slicer/pull/8825">PR-8825</a></li>
</ul>
<h2><a name="p-129959-release-announcement-for-510-3" class="anchor" href="#p-129959-release-announcement-for-510-3" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Release announcement for 5.10</h2>
<ul>
<li>It is being drafted and edited by the community; currently selecting features to put in the <em>Highlights</em> section.</li>
</ul>
<h2><a name="p-129959-dicom-plugins-for-idc-browser-4" class="anchor" href="#p-129959-dicom-plugins-for-idc-browser-4" aria-label="Heading link"></a>DICOM Plugins for IDC Browser</h2>
<ul>
<li>Need to improve / automate installation of DICOM plugin providing extensions for IDC browser</li>
<li>Can we have “soft dependencies”</li>
<li>Install-time request through the extension manager
<ul>
<li>Put in extension manager or do through module code?</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>Add specific field for DICOM plugins in extension description?</li>
</ul>

---
