# 2023.08.01 Weekly Meeting

**Topic ID**: 30890
**Date**: 2023-07-31
**URL**: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/2023-08-01-weekly-meeting/30890

---

## Post #1 by @Sam_Horvath (2023-07-31 16:12 UTC)

<p>Tomorrow, we will be having our next weekly hangout at <strong>10:00 AM ET until 11:00 AM ET</strong></p>
<p>Anyone is welcome to join to ask questions at <a href="https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware">https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware</a></p>
<hr>
<div class="discourse-post-event" data-start="2023-08-01 10:00" data-status="public" data-name="Weekly Meeting" data-url="https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware" data-timezone="America/New_York" data-allowed-groups="trust_level_0"></div>
<p><strong>Agenda:</strong></p>
<ul>
<li><a href="https://slicer.cdash.org/index.php?project=SlicerPreview#!#Extensions-Nightly" rel="noopener nofollow ugc">Extension dashboard status</a></li>
</ul>
<p>Please post to this thread to put a topic on the agenda!  We will try to prioritize agenda items during the meeting.</p>
<hr>
<p>Thanks<br>
Sam and J-Christophe</p>

---

## Post #2 by @mau_igna_06 (2023-07-31 16:41 UTC)

<p>It would be nice if we could talk about this:</p><aside class="quote quote-modified" data-post="7" data-topic="30873">
  <div class="title">
    <div class="quote-controls"></div>
    <img loading="lazy" alt="" width="24" height="24" src="https://sea2.discourse-cdn.com/flex020/user_avatar/discourse.slicer.org/lassoan/48/13_2.png" class="avatar">
    <a href="https://discourse.slicer.org/t/should-we-start-collecting-software-usage-data/30873/7">Should we start collecting software usage data?</a> <a class="badge-category__wrapper " href="/c/dev/5"><span data-category-id="5" data-drop-close="true" class="badge-category " title="The Development category is for discussion of Slicer application and extension programming, software testing, and related topics - similarly to the former slicer-devel mailing list."><span class="badge-category__name">Development</span></span></a>
  </div>
  <blockquote>
    Any kind of non-networking task (e.g., starting a segmentation task) initiating network communication without explicit user approval could be interpreted by some users as spying. Users that are sensitive about tracking their activities install firewalls that immediately notify them about all network requests and they are upset if they find out that a software attempted to send information without consent, may start a smear campaign, etc. that we should all absolutely avoid. I think allowing sendâ€¦
  </blockquote>
</aside>


---

## Post #3 by @lassoan (2023-07-31 16:51 UTC)

<p>It would be also nice to discuss about continuous integration for extensions:</p>
<aside class="quote" data-post="24" data-topic="30857">
  <div class="title">
    <div class="quote-controls"></div>
    <img loading="lazy" alt="" width="24" height="24" src="https://sea2.discourse-cdn.com/flex020/user_avatar/discourse.slicer.org/lassoan/48/13_2.png" class="avatar">
    <a href="https://discourse.slicer.org/t/adding-a-ci-build-to-a-slicer-extension/30857/24">Adding a CI build to a Slicer extension</a> <a class="badge-category__wrapper " href="/c/community/slicerdmri/16"><span data-category-id="16" data-parent-category-id="12" data-drop-close="true" class="badge-category --has-parent" title="The SlicerDMRI extension provides diffusion MRI tools including tensor estimation, tractography, and quantification."><span class="badge-category__name">SlicerDMRI</span></span></a>
  </div>
  <blockquote>
    The standard for CI today is immediate build for pull requests. It would be nice to achieve this for Slicer, too. Currently, most extension developers rely on local builds and the nightly automatic build. The only exception is OpenDose3D, which has <a href="https://gitlab.com/opendose/opendose3d/-/pipelines">CI pipeline</a> set up on gitlab.
  </blockquote>
</aside>


---
