# 2025.02.11 Weekly Meeting

**Topic ID**: 41615
**Date**: 2025-02-10
**URL**: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/2025-02-11-weekly-meeting/41615

---

## Post #1 by @Sam_Horvath (2025-02-10 22:55 UTC)

<p>Tomorrow, we will be having our next weekly hangout at <strong>10:00 AM ET until 11:00 AM ET,</strong></p>
<p>Anyone is welcome to join at this link: <a href="https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware">https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware</a></p>
<hr>
<div class="discourse-post-event" data-start="2025-02-11 10:00" data-status="public" data-name="Weekly Meeting" data-url="https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware" data-timezone="America/New_York" data-allowed-groups="trust_level_0"></div>
<p><strong>Agenda:</strong></p>
<p>Please post to this thread to put a topic on the agenda!  We will try to prioritize agenda items during the meeting.</p>
<hr>
<p>Thanks<br>
Sam and J-Christophe</p>

---

## Post #2 by @jcfr (2025-02-11 14:55 UTC)

<p>We will be discussing:</p>
<ul>
<li>Implementing support for <strong>scripted modules</strong> to declare Python requirements and constraints while enforcing <strong>Slicer Core constraints</strong> ( <a href="https://github.com/Slicer/Slicer/pull/8181">PR #8181</a>) by <a class="mention" href="/u/allemangd">@allemangd</a></li>
<li>Update to README (<a href="https://github.com/Slicer/Slicer/pull/8208">PR-8208</a>)</li>
<li>SlicerLung pull request (<a href="https://github.com/Slicer/Slicer/pull/8220">PR-8220</a>)</li>
</ul>
<p>We will also review outstanding pull requests.</p>

---

## Post #3 by @jcfr (2025-02-18 15:01 UTC)

<h3><a name="p-122656-meeting-notes-1" class="anchor" href="#p-122656-meeting-notes-1" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Meeting Notes</h3>
<p><strong>Welcome New Attendee</strong>:</p>
<ul>
<li>Welcomed <strong>Mohammed Raihan Udin</strong> as a first-time attendee.</li>
</ul>
<h4><a name="p-122656-pull-request-review-2" class="anchor" href="#p-122656-pull-request-review-2" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Pull Request Review</h4>
<ul>
<li>Closed <a href="https://github.com/Slicer/Slicer/pull/8220">PR #8220</a>.</li>
<li>Follow-up on <a href="https://github.com/Slicer/Slicer/pull/8208">PR #8208</a>:  Close the PR, and a create a follow-up one to incorporate improvements discussed in <a href="https://hackmd.io/9pPL41ytSOCK7-mPN-1ZwQ#Proposal-by-jcfr">https://hackmd.io/9pPL41ytSOCK7-mPN-1ZwQ#Proposal-by-jcfr</a>.</li>
</ul>
<h4><a name="p-122656-biomedisa-3" class="anchor" href="#p-122656-biomedisa-3" aria-label="Heading link"></a><strong>BioMedisa</strong></h4>
<ul>
<li>Discussed <a href="https://biomedisa.info/">https://biomedisa.info/</a> and its relevance to Slicer.</li>
</ul>
<h4><a name="p-122656-morphodepot-4" class="anchor" href="#p-122656-morphodepot-4" aria-label="Heading link"></a>MorphoDepot</h4>
<ul>
<li>Explored options for <strong>data organization and versioning</strong>:
<ul>
<li><strong>git-lfs</strong> for managing large files.</li>
<li><strong><a href="https://dvc.org/">DVC</a></strong> for dataset versioning and tracking.</li>
<li><strong>Hugging Face</strong> as a potential hosting solution.</li>
<li><strong><a href="https://libraries.mit.edu/data-management/store/osf/">Open Science Framework (OSF)</a></strong></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h4><a name="p-122656-segment-editor-effect-thresholding-preview-warning-5" class="anchor" href="#p-122656-segment-editor-effect-thresholding-preview-warning-5" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Segment Editor Effect &amp; Thresholding Preview Warning</h4>
<ul>
<li>The <strong>Threshold Preview effect</strong> in the <strong>Segment Editor</strong> throws a warning when switching to <strong>Grid Slice Layout</strong>.</li>
<li>See <a href="https://github.com/Slicer/Slicer/blob/05e03affb0c0eebde451d452c36fb2d84a5828f6/Modules/Loadable/Segmentations/EditorEffects/Python/SegmentEditorEffects/SegmentEditorThresholdEffect.py#L811">SegmentEditorThresholdEffect.py#L811</a>.</li>
<li><strong>Proposed Fix</strong>: If no volume is shown, the preview should not be displayed to avoid unnecessary warnings.</li>
</ul>
<h4><a name="p-122656-thick-slab-reconstruction-6" class="anchor" href="#p-122656-thick-slab-reconstruction-6" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Thick Slab Reconstruction</h4>
<ul>
<li>Reviewed updates on the <strong>Thick Slab Reconstruction feature</strong>.</li>
<li><strong>Relevant Discussion</strong>: <a href="https://discourse.slicer.org/t/new-feature-thick-slab-reconstruction-from-slice-controllers-and-views/32432/10">https://discourse.slicer.org/t/new-feature-thick-slab-reconstruction-from-slice-controllers-and-views/32432/10</a>.</li>
<li>See <code>vtkMRMLSliceLogic::UpdateReconstructionSlab</code> in <a href="https://github.com/Slicer/Slicer/blob/05e03affb0c0eebde451d452c36fb2d84a5828f6/Libs/MRML/Logic/vtkMRMLSliceLogic.cxx#L989-L1023">vtkMRMLSliceLogic.cxx#L989-L1023</a>.</li>
</ul>
<h4><a name="p-122656-slicer-support-resource-allocation-7" class="anchor" href="#p-122656-slicer-support-resource-allocation-7" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Slicer Support &amp; Resource Allocation</h4>
<ul>
<li><strong>Challenge</strong>: How can we better allocate resources to review and follow up on <strong>Discourse requests</strong>?</li>
<li><strong>Proposed Solutions</strong>:
<ul>
<li>Discussed the idea of creating a <strong>foundation</strong> to manage support, but noted that it would require significant administrative effort.</li>
<li><strong>Immediate Action</strong>:
<ul>
<li>Create <strong>GitHub issues</strong> to track support requests.</li>
<li>Explicitly mention which issues will be addressed to improve transparency and prioritization.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

---
