---
topic_id: 41662
title: "How To Make A Model Available In Cli Python Modules"
date: 2025-02-13
url: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/41662
---

# How to make a model available in CLI Python modules

**Topic ID**: 41662
**Date**: 2025-02-13
**URL**: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/how-to-make-a-model-available-in-cli-python-modules/41662

---

## Post #1 by @modenaxe (2025-02-13 00:33 UTC)

<p>Hello,<br>
I am writing a CLI module and would like to have a model as an input to then use it as vtkPolyData. I have checked the <a href="https://github.com/lassoan/SlicerPythonCLIExample/" rel="noopener nofollow ugc">provided example</a> and inspected some of the C++ modules taking a model as input, for example <a href="https://github.com/Slicer/Slicer/blob/e6971c540b030f7e83f949918a433cf58bee4c3b/Modules/CLI/ModelToLabelMap/ModelToLabelMap.cxx" rel="noopener nofollow ugc">ModelToLabelMap</a> but it is still unclear to me how to do it.<br>
I am trying some code resembling the C++ code but it is not working because ReadData cannot read the ModelNode:</p>
<pre><code class="lang-auto">modelNode = slicer.vtkMRMLModelNode()
modelStorageNode = slicer.vtkMRMLModelStorageNode()
modelStorageNode.SetFileName(sys.argv[1]) # sys.argv[1] is the input model provided by the GUI
modelNode = modelStorageNode.ReadData(modelNode)
polyModel = modelNode.getPolyData()
</code></pre>
<p>I have two questions:</p>
<ol>
<li>How can this be achieved in Python? (Apologies if this is obvious, I am just getting started with Slicer).</li>
<li>what is the best way of practically developing a CLI module autogenerated GUI? Currently I am finding myself restarting Slicer every time I modify the GUI xml.</li>
</ol>
<p>Thank you for any insight,<br>
Luca</p>

---

## Post #2 by @lassoan (2025-02-13 04:20 UTC)

<p>Your code snippet is generally OK, it just has a few errors. Something like this should work better:</p>
<pre data-code-wrap="python"><code class="lang-python">    import slicer
    modelNode = slicer.vtkMRMLModelNode()
    modelStorageNode = slicer.vtkMRMLModelStorageNode()
    modelStorageNode.SetFileName(sys.argv[1]) # sys.argv[1] is the input model provided by the GUI
    success = modelStorageNode.ReadData(modelNode)
    polydata = modelNode.GetPolyData()
</code></pre>

---

## Post #3 by @modenaxe (2025-02-13 04:45 UTC)

<p>Thank you for the prompt reply, Andras, this is indeed working! I was importing slicer but did not notice the lower ‘g’.</p>

---
