# Bone Thickness Mapping use with skull CT images

**Topic ID**: 32463
**Date**: 2023-10-29
**URL**: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/bone-thickness-mapping-use-with-skull-ct-images/32463

---

## Post #1 by @Gonzalo_Rojas_Costa (2023-10-29 23:25 UTC)

<p>Hi:</p>
<p>I want to obtain the bone thickness using skull CT images. Do skull CT images need to have any specific characteristics in order to use the BoneThicknessMapping extension?</p>
<p>Sincerely</p>
<p>Gonzalo Rojas Costa</p>

---

## Post #2 by @zarcow (2023-11-30 04:42 UTC)

<p>Gonzalo, there is a workaround to make that module to run:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>download Slicer-4.11.20200930-linux-amd64 (or any OS -mac, win, linux-)<br>
<a href="https://slicer-packages.kitware.com/#collection/5f4474d0e1d8c75dfc70547e/folder/60add36dae4540bf6a89be6c" class="inline-onebox" rel="noopener nofollow ugc">SPKC</a></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>download and install the “BoneThicknessMapping” module<br>
<a href="https://extensions.slicer.org/catalog/All/30822/linux" class="inline-onebox" rel="noopener nofollow ugc">@KitwareMedical/slicer-extensions-webapp</a> (or any OS -mac, win, linux-)</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Open ‘/home/.config/NA-MIC/Extensions-29402/BoneThicknessMapping/lib/Slicer-4.11/qt-scripted-modules/BoneThicknessMapping.py’<br>
and Change ‘airCellTable’ to ‘airCellTableNode’in line 931, save and restart slicer.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>That should do</p>

---

## Post #3 by @Gonzalo_Rojas_Costa (2023-12-23 14:31 UTC)

<p>Hi:</p>
<p>I followed the instructions that you sent me. I tested the module using brain CT included in the 3D Slicer examples. But I got the thickness of only one skull hemisphere… Why ?</p>
<p>Sincerely,</p>

---

## Post #4 by @zarcow (2023-12-29 02:28 UTC)

<p>Hi Gonzalo,</p>
<p>The ‘bone thickness mapping’ module uses the ray-casting technique to estimate the bone “depth”, hence it only computes the depth where the prescribed rays cast. Once you load the module, there is a section in which you can specify the ray casting direction (RAS &amp; LPI). Just run the module for each view of your interest, and you will cover the whole skull.</p>

---

## Post #5 by @Gonzalo_Rojas_Costa (2024-01-01 00:55 UTC)

<p>Hi:</p>
<p>Ok. Thank you very much for your answer.</p>
<p>I have skull CT of two different populations. How can I do the comparison of both skull thicknesses?</p>
<p>Sincerely,</p>

---

## Post #6 by @Gonzalo_Rojas_Costa (2024-01-02 00:15 UTC)

<p>Hi:</p>
<p>Another question. How can I get the values of bone thickness from the model generated by "BoneThicknessMapping” module ?.. the complete head skull?.. some areas or lobules?</p>
<p>Sincerely,</p>

---

## Post #7 by @zarcow (2024-01-19 22:37 UTC)

<p>I would explore the source code (I am not a developer of the module) and look where the array of values is manipulated to save it for further processing</p>

---
