---
topic_id: 18524
title: "2021 07 06 Hangout"
date: 2021-07-05
url: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/18524
---

# 2021.07.06 Hangout

**Topic ID**: 18524
**Date**: 2021-07-05
**URL**: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/2021-07-06-hangout/18524

---

## Post #1 by @Sam_Horvath (2021-07-05 22:35 UTC)

<p>Tomorrow, we will be having our next weekly hangout at 10:00 AM ET until 11 AM ET.</p>
<p>Anyone is welcome to join to ask questions at <a href="https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware">https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware </a></p>
<p>Agenda:</p>
<ul>
<li>Extension manager</li>
<li>Slicer 5</li>
</ul>
<p>Feel free to post to this thread to request/suggest a topic!</p>
<p>Thanks<br>
Sam and J-Christophe</p>

---

## Post #2 by @jamesobutler (2021-07-06 22:39 UTC)

<p>Any update on timeline of new extension manager backend completion as it relates to the next stable release?</p>
<p>Are the issues in the <a href="https://github.com/Slicer/Slicer/milestone/1" rel="noopener nofollow ugc">Slicer 4.13.0 GitHub milestone</a> blockers that must be resolved prior to the next release? How is the Slicer 4.13.0 milestone issues distinct from the <a href="https://github.com/Slicer/Slicer/milestone/4" rel="noopener nofollow ugc">Slicer 5.0.0 GitHub milestone</a>? Are these different releases?</p>

---

## Post #3 by @lassoan (2021-07-07 00:10 UTC)

<p>There are two blockers to the new Slicer Stable Release: the Extensions Manager update and SlicerVMTK extension build. If these are resolved then the new stable will be released. I hope it can happen within a week or two, but <a class="mention" href="/u/jcfr">@jcfr</a> is the main developer of both, so he can give a better estimate.</p>
<p>Unresolved 4.13 milestone issues will be automatically rescheduled for 5.0, which is planned to be released in August. There is no much practical difference between 4.13 and 5.0 milestones, other than issues in 5.0 are not even considered to be fixed in the upcoming stable release, while issues in 4.13 might.</p>

---

## Post #4 by @jamesobutler (2021-07-07 01:16 UTC)

<p>Ok so a 4.13 release in July/August once Extensions Manager update and SlicerVMTK are complete. Then 5.0 released soon after in August.</p>
<p>As the milestones are currently organized, carrying over issues to the next milestone makes it difficult for me to consider which ones to maybe help out with to test and debug. It is difficult to see which items must be complete before a release and which things are not. It seems like many items in the 4.13 milestone are just nice to haves and not that much different from issues in the “backlog” milestone or with an undefined milestone.</p>
<p>Maybe this is part of the “how to know which issues are priority” issue. Up votes can help, but maybe only keeping the main things in the milestone would also help and other supporting things just be outside of the milestone. Maybe at least issues are only added to the milestone when someone has actually started work on the issue.</p>

---

## Post #5 by @lassoan (2021-07-12 17:44 UTC)

<p>Help is welcome with any issues (“bug” has higher priority than “enhancement” and priority tag may give hints about importance of issues). If an issue is already assigned to someone then write a comment at the issue and wait a day (if you don’t get answer earlier) before you assign it to yourself and start working on it. Thank you!</p>

---
