# 2023.09.12 Weekly Meeting

**Topic ID**: 31647
**Date**: 2023-09-11
**URL**: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/2023-09-12-weekly-meeting/31647

---

## Post #1 by @Sam_Horvath (2023-09-11 17:44 UTC)

<p>Tomorrow, we will be having our next weekly hangout at <strong>10:00 AM ET until 11:00 AM ET</strong></p>
<p>Anyone is welcome to join to ask questions at <a href="https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware">https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware</a></p>
<hr>
<div class="discourse-post-event" data-start="2023-09-12 10:00" data-status="public" data-name="Weekly Meeting" data-url="https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware" data-timezone="America/New_York" data-allowed-groups="trust_level_0"></div>
<p><strong>Agenda:</strong></p>
<ul>
<li><a href="https://slicer.cdash.org/index.php?project=SlicerPreview#!#Extensions-Nightly" rel="noopener nofollow ugc">Extension dashboard status</a></li>
<li><a href="https://github.com/Slicer/Slicer/pull/7224">SurfaceNets Issue and PR</a></li>
</ul>
<p>Please post to this thread to put a topic on the agenda!  We will try to prioritize agenda items during the meeting.</p>
<hr>
<p>Thanks<br>
Sam and J-Christophe</p>

---

## Post #2 by @jcfr (2023-09-11 19:14 UTC)

<p><strong>Agenda (Update):</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>Discuss testing of Interactive Slicer Intersection and Thick Slab Reconstruction (TSR). See <a href="https://github.com/Slicer/Slicer/pull/7093#issuecomment-1708516774">https://github.com/Slicer/Slicer/pull/7093#issuecomment-1708516774</a> (cc: <a class="mention" href="/u/tom_osika">@Tom_Osika</a>)</li>
</ul>

---

## Post #3 by @jamesobutler (2023-09-11 21:56 UTC)

<p>I can be present for discussion on latest Slice controller updates (<a href="https://github.com/Slicer/Slicer/pull/7219#issuecomment-1712541975" class="inline-onebox" rel="noopener nofollow ugc">ENH: Remove fixed size buttons in view controller for better restyling by jamesobutler · Pull Request #7219 · Slicer/Slicer · GitHub</a>) to see what changes we can integrate here in the short term and what larger changes we may want to begin design planning out in the longer term (changing orientation or overall functionality of the controller).</p>

---

## Post #4 by @mau_igna_06 (2023-09-12 14:46 UTC)

<p>Hi</p>
<p>Did the meeting end early today?</p>

---

## Post #5 by @jcfr (2023-09-12 14:55 UTC)

<p>Looks like we missed you while going around asking if another topic should be discussed.</p>
<p>If you would like to discuss or present something, I could definitely re-start the meeting.</p>

---

## Post #6 by @mau_igna_06 (2023-09-12 14:58 UTC)

<aside class="quote no-group" data-username="jcfr" data-post="5" data-topic="31647">
<div class="title">
<div class="quote-controls"></div>
<img loading="lazy" alt="" width="24" height="24" src="https://sea2.discourse-cdn.com/flex020/user_avatar/discourse.slicer.org/jcfr/48/17825_2.png" class="avatar"> jcfr:</div>
<blockquote>
<p>If you would like to discuss or present something, I could definitely re-start the meeting.</p>
</blockquote>
</aside>
<p>No JC. Thanks a lot.</p>
<p>I just had left a work meeting and I joined late to this meeting because I was interested on hearing the discussions.</p>
<p>There were very interesting topics.</p>
<p>I’ll join again next week.</p>
<p>Have a good day!</p>

---
