# 2025.06.10 Weekly Meeting

**Topic ID**: 43288
**Date**: 2025-06-10
**URL**: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/2025-06-10-weekly-meeting/43288

---

## Post #1 by @Sam_Horvath (2025-06-10 14:18 UTC)

<p>Today, we will be having our next weekly hangout at <strong>11:00 AM ET until 12:00 PM ET,</strong> after the project week meeting.  We will be reusing the Project Week Zoom link.</p>
<p>Anyone is welcome to join at this link: <a href="https://etsmtl.zoom.us/j/82098172682?pwd=OHXPL5SlaLt817CzeBu8C1Pu21PvqW.1" class="inline-onebox">Launch Meeting - Zoom</a></p>
<hr>
<div class="discourse-post-event" data-start="2025-06-10 11:00" data-status="public" data-name="Weekly Meeting" data-url="https://etsmtl.zoom.us/j/82098172682?pwd=OHXPL5SlaLt817CzeBu8C1Pu21PvqW.1" data-timezone="America/New_York" data-allowed-groups="trust_level_0"></div>
<p><strong>Agenda:</strong></p>
<p>Please post to this thread to put a topic on the agenda!  We will try to prioritize agenda items during the meeting.</p>
<hr>
<p>Thanks<br>
Sam and J-Christophe</p>

---

## Post #2 by @jcfr (2025-06-10 18:40 UTC)

<h3><a name="p-125843-meeting-notes-1" class="anchor" href="#p-125843-meeting-notes-1" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Meeting Notes</h3>
<h4><a name="p-125843-python-312-transition-2" class="anchor" href="#p-125843-python-312-transition-2" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Python 3.12 Transition</h4>
<ul>
<li>Discussed the proposed update from Python 3.9 to 3.12. See <a href="https://github.com/Slicer/Slicer/pull/8466">PR #8466</a>.</li>
</ul>
<h4><a name="p-125843-slicerpresets-repository-3" class="anchor" href="#p-125843-slicerpresets-repository-3" aria-label="Heading link"></a><code>SlicerPresets</code> Repository</h4>
<ul>
<li>Reviewed the need and potential for a centralized presets repository. Discussion tracked in <a href="https://github.com/Slicer/Slicer/issues/5206">Issue #5206</a>.</li>
</ul>
<h4><a name="p-125843-future-of-slicercaseiterator-extension-4" class="anchor" href="#p-125843-future-of-slicercaseiterator-extension-4" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Future of <code>SlicerCaseIterator</code> extension</h4>
<ul>
<li>Discussed maintenance, usability improvements, and potential directions for the <code>SlicerCaseIterator</code> extension. See related issue: <a href="https://github.com/JoostJM/SlicerCaseIterator/issues/23">JoostJM/SlicerCaseIterator#23</a>.</li>
</ul>
<h4><a name="p-125843-common-infrastructure-for-ai-based-segmentation-5" class="anchor" href="#p-125843-common-infrastructure-for-ai-based-segmentation-5" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Common Infrastructure for AI-Based Segmentation</h4>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Discussed the need for a <strong>shared framework</strong> to streamline <strong>AI model inference</strong> and <strong>annotation workflows</strong>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Goals:</p>
<ul>
<li>Reduce duplication across extensions with overlapping functionality.</li>
<li>Enable collaboration by forming a group of interested contributors.</li>
<li>Reach consensus on implementation priorities and divide tasks among participating teams.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Implementation ideas:</p>
<ul>
<li>Introduce a new <code>slicer.batch</code> Python module in the Slicer core (instead of overloading <code>slicer.util</code>), or</li>
<li>Create a dedicated MRML-based extension for managing batch inference workflows.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h4><a name="p-125843-slicer-telemetry-6" class="anchor" href="#p-125843-slicer-telemetry-6" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Slicer Telemetry</h4>
<ul>
<li>
<p><strong>Recent Developments</strong> by <a class="mention" href="/u/berdom.ing">@BerDom.Ing</a>:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p><strong>Extension UI</strong>: <a href="https://github.com/Slicer/SlicerTelemetry/pull/1">SlicerTelemetry PR #1</a><br>
(<em>repository</em>: <code>Slicer/SlicerTelemetry</code>)</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Front-end Visualization</strong>: <a href="https://github.com/Slicer/slicer-usage-stats/pull/1">PR #1</a><br>
(<em>repository</em>: <code>Slicer/slicer-usage-stats</code>)</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Server Backend</strong>: <a href="https://github.com/BerDom-Ing/Slicer-Telemetry/tree/main">Slicer Telemetry Server</a></p>
<ul>
<li>Repository will be renamed to <code>BerDom-Ing/slicer-usage-stats-backend</code> (currently named   <code>BerDom-Ing/Slicer-Telemetry</code>)</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Telemetry Web Domain</strong>:</p>
<ul>
<li>As discussed during the <a href="https://discourse.slicer.org/t/2025-02-25-weekly-meeting/41873">2025-02-25 weekly meeting</a>, the domain to access telemetry statistics will be <code>stats.slicer.org</code>**</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

---
