---
topic_id: 28503
title: "2023 03 28 Weekly Meeting"
date: 2023-03-21
url: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/28503
---

# 2023.03.28 Weekly Meeting

**Topic ID**: 28503
**Date**: 2023-03-21
**URL**: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/2023-03-28-weekly-meeting/28503

---

## Post #1 by @Sam_Horvath (2023-03-21 19:10 UTC)

<p>Next Tuesday, we will be having our next weekly hangout at <strong>10:00 AM ET until 11:00AM ET</strong>.</p>
<p>Anyone is welcome to join to ask questions at <a href="https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware">https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware</a></p>
<hr>
<div class="discourse-post-event" data-start="2023-03-28 10:00" data-status="public" data-name="Weekly Meeting" data-url="https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware" data-timezone="America/New_York" data-allowed-groups="trust_level_0"></div>
<p><strong>Agenda:</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>Extension reviews - keep it feasible and secure (see <a href="https://github.com/Slicer/ExtensionsIndex/issues/1926">discussion</a>)</li>
<li><a href="https://slicer.cdash.org/index.php?project=SlicerPreview#!#Extensions-Nightly" rel="noopener nofollow ugc">Extension dashboard status</a></li>
</ul>
<p>Please post to this thread to put a topic on the agenda!  We will try to prioritize agenda items during the meeting.</p>
<hr>
<p>Thanks<br>
Sam and J-Christophe</p>

---

## Post #2 by @jamesobutler (2023-03-28 19:51 UTC)

<aside class="quote no-group" data-username="Sam_Horvath" data-post="1" data-topic="28503">
<div class="title">
<div class="quote-controls"></div>
<img loading="lazy" alt="" width="24" height="24" src="https://sea2.discourse-cdn.com/flex020/user_avatar/discourse.slicer.org/sam_horvath/48/3092_2.png" class="avatar"> Sam_Horvath:</div>
<blockquote>
<p>Extension reviews - keep it feasible and secure (see <a href="https://github.com/Slicer/ExtensionsIndex/issues/1926" rel="noopener nofollow ugc">discussion</a>)</p>
</blockquote>
</aside>
<p>Did you all come to an agreement about how to proceed on this topic? Sorry I was unable to attend.</p>

---

## Post #3 by @lassoan (2023-03-29 03:56 UTC)

<p>There was no agreement (so probably everything will remain unchanged), we just had a very broad discussion about how things should evolve in the long term. The goal could be to make available Slicer components as Python packages (similarly to vtkAddon) and extensions could be Python packages. Therefore, it could make sense to store extension metadata similarly how package metadata stored in PyPI.</p>

---
