---
topic_id: 4280
title: "Marching Cubes Poly Result Is Scaled"
date: 2018-10-04
url: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/4280
---

# Marching cubes poly result is scaled

**Topic ID**: 4280
**Date**: 2018-10-04
**URL**: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/marching-cubes-poly-result-is-scaled/4280

---

## Post #1 by @Niels (2018-10-04 06:42 UTC)

<p>The result of my poly model coming from is not the same scale as my slices. So I am unable to see them overlap and scroll in the 3Dview. Am I missing an extra step?</p>
<pre><code>surface = vtk.vtkMarchingCubes()
surface.SetInputData( imageData )
surface.ReleaseDataFlagOn()
surface.ComputeNormalsOn()
surface.ComputeGradientsOn()
surface.SetValue(0,scalar_iso)
surface.Update()

modelPolyData = surface.GetOutput()</code></pre>

---

## Post #2 by @Niels (2018-10-04 09:02 UTC)

<p>The data needed to be transformed to volume space.<br>
I also happen to find the ModelMaker interface which also suits my needs.</p>
<p>But I am unable to get the points and normals out of a model that was generated by this module. I am using this</p>
<p><a href="https://discourse.slicer.org/t/access-point-and-cell-data-of-surface-mesh/2426/2">https://discourse.slicer.org/t/access-point-and-cell-data-of-surface-mesh/2426/2</a></p>

---

## Post #3 by @cpinter (2018-10-04 12:57 UTC)

<p>Once you use Slicer you might want to use its features instead of sticking to VTK programming. If you import your labelmap in a segmentaiton node then convert it to surface then you get good result.</p>
<p>You can do the import from the UI in the Segmentations module or in the Data module (right-click the labelmap). If you want to do it via script or customize it then I’m sure you can find the answer <a href="https://discourse.slicer.org/search?q=import%20labelmap%20to%20segmentation">here in the forum</a>, this is a topic that keeps coming up.</p>

---

## Post #4 by @Niels (2018-10-08 07:52 UTC)

<p>I am now using segmentations in slicer for selecting the voxels of interest and that works perfectly. So that was solved, but I needed the point/normal list to export them to file, I do not need them for anything else. All works fine now. Thanks for your help and link.</p>

---
