# 2024.11.05 Weekly Meeting

**Topic ID**: 40028
**Date**: 2024-11-05
**URL**: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/2024-11-05-weekly-meeting/40028

---

## Post #1 by @Sam_Horvath (2024-11-05 02:13 UTC)

<p>Tomorrow, we will be having our next weekly hangout at <strong>10:00 AM ET until 11:00 AM ET</strong></p>
<p>Anyone is welcome to join at this link: <a href="https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware">https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware</a></p>
<hr>
<div class="discourse-post-event" data-start="2024-11-05 10:00" data-status="public" data-name="Weekly Meeting" data-url="https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware" data-timezone="America/New_York" data-allowed-groups="trust_level_0"></div>
<p><strong>Agenda:</strong></p>
<p>Please post to this thread to put a topic on the agenda!  We will try to prioritize agenda items during the meeting.</p>
<hr>
<p>Thanks<br>
Sam and J-Christophe</p>

---

## Post #2 by @RafaelPalomar (2024-11-05 12:24 UTC)

<p>There has been more progress on <a href="https://github.com/Slicer/SlicerSOFA/pull/27" class="inline-onebox" rel="noopener nofollow ugc">SofaParameterNodeWrapper by RafaelPalomar · Pull Request #27 · Slicer/SlicerSOFA · GitHub</a> . We could have a look at it together if time  allows</p>

---

## Post #3 by @pieper (2024-11-05 13:08 UTC)

<p>I can also discuss some sofa experiments and maybe the MorphoDepot project.</p>

---

## Post #4 by @wenples (2024-11-05 13:43 UTC)

<p>If there’s time today. Just a look at the current iconset in dark/light, and your preferences for which other .png files in codebase (I’ve tabled them) should be reworked.</p>

---

## Post #5 by @jcfr (2024-11-11 20:07 UTC)

<h3><a name="p-119336-meeting-notes-1" class="anchor" href="#p-119336-meeting-notes-1" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Meeting Notes</h3>
<h4><a name="p-119336-slicersofa-2" class="anchor" href="#p-119336-slicersofa-2" aria-label="Heading link"></a>SlicerSOFA</h4>
<ul>
<li>
<p><strong>Demo Review</strong>:  <a class="mention" href="/u/pieper">@pieper</a> demonstrated collision detection and response using an interactive probe controlled by a markup node.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Customization of vtkMRMLMarkupsLineNodes</strong>: Discussed potential customizations for <code>vtkMRMLMarkupsLineNodes</code>, such as options for endpoint shapes and support for additional units (e.g., force).</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Pipeline Generation Prototype</strong>: <a class="mention" href="/u/rafaelpalomar">@RafaelPalomar</a> introduced a prototype for generating pipelines.</p>
<ul>
<li>The discussion covered how the parameter node wrapper code interacts with VTK pipelines to map SOFA to MRML data structures, particularly when computations involve persistent VTK filter instances.</li>
<li>Current developments support simple 1-to-1 SOFA-to-MRML mappings. More complex mappings, which require a conversion pipeline, would need mechanisms to maintain the pipeline state.</li>
<li><strong>Andras</strong> suggested separating variable mapping from declarations in the parameter node to improve readability. Rafael will review the design to identify possible solutions.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h4><a name="p-119336-slicer-58-release-3" class="anchor" href="#p-119336-slicer-58-release-3" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Slicer 5.8 Release</h4>
<ul>
<li>Considered a minor delay in the release timeline to manage other time commitments, with the goal of releasing before RSNA (targeting mid November).</li>
</ul>
<h4><a name="p-119336-slicer-icon-update-4" class="anchor" href="#p-119336-slicer-icon-update-4" aria-label="Heading link"></a>Slicer Icon Update</h4>
<ul>
<li><strong>Icon Design Guidelines</strong>: <a class="mention" href="/u/wenples">@wenples</a> presented guidelines for icon design, followed by a review of priority icons to be added.</li>
</ul>

---
