---
topic_id: 15172
title: "2020 12 21 Hangout"
date: 2020-12-21
url: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/15172
---

# 2020.12.21 Hangout

**Topic ID**: 15172
**Date**: 2020-12-21
**URL**: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/2020-12-21-hangout/15172

---

## Post #1 by @Sam_Horvath (2020-12-21 17:30 UTC)

<p>Tomorrow, we will be having our next weekly hangout at 10 AM ET.</p>
<p>Anyone is welcome to join to ask questions at <a href="https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware" rel="noopener nofollow ugc">https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware </a></p>
<p>Agenda:</p>
<ul>
<li>Slicer 5 and VTK 9 Progress</li>
</ul>
<p>Feel free to post to this thread to request/suggest a topic!</p>
<p>Thanks<br>
Sam and J-Christophe</p>

---

## Post #2 by @jcfr (2020-12-22 14:28 UTC)

<p>Additional items to discuss:</p>
<ul>
<li>Discuss requirements for <a href="https://discourse.slicer.org/t/rfc-toward-supporting-distribution-of-vtk-based-modules-on-pypi/15174" class="inline-onebox">RFC: Toward supporting distribution of VTK based modules on PyPI</a>
</li>
<li><s><a href="https://discourse.slicer.org/t/updating-only-header-information-for-metaimage-nrrd/15115" class="inline-onebox">Updating only header information for MetaImage/NRRD</a></s></li>
</ul>

---

## Post #3 by @RafaelPalomar (2020-12-22 14:42 UTC)

<p>If there is time for it, Iâ€™d like to have a discussion on the infrastructure for Pluggable Markups.</p>

---
