# 2024.03.19 Weekly Meeting

**Topic ID**: 34964
**Date**: 2024-03-18
**URL**: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/2024-03-19-weekly-meeting/34964

---

## Post #1 by @Sam_Horvath (2024-03-18 20:08 UTC)

<p>Tomorrow, we will be having our next weekly hangout at <strong>10:00 AM ET until 11:00 AM ET</strong> .</p>
<p>Anyone is welcome to join at this link: <a href="https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware">https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware</a></p>
<hr>
<div class="discourse-post-event" data-start="2024-03-19 10:00" data-status="public" data-name="Weekly Meeting" data-url="https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware" data-timezone="America/New_York" data-allowed-groups="trust_level_0"></div>
<p><strong>Agenda:</strong></p>
<p>Please post to this thread to put a topic on the agenda!  We will try to prioritize agenda items during the meeting.</p>
<hr>
<p>Thanks<br>
Sam and J-Christophe</p>

---

## Post #2 by @RafaelPalomar (2024-03-19 13:42 UTC)

<p>I would like to update on the Slicer-SOFA integration</p>

---

## Post #3 by @lassoan (2024-03-19 17:43 UTC)

<p>I was not able to attend the meeting today. Could somebody summarize what was the update on SOFA integration?</p>

---

## Post #4 by @pieper (2024-03-19 17:58 UTC)

<p>My takeaway, and <a class="mention" href="/u/rafaelpalomar">@RafaelPalomar</a> can correct me if I’m wrong, is that Rafeal succeeded in compiling the SOFA python bindings in a Slicer superbuild in a way that supports many integration strategies:</p>
<ul>
<li>Integrate SOFA in Slicer event loop by periodically updating the physics on a model constructed by calling SOFA primitives based on content of the scene (e.g. a mesh).</li>
<li>Use SOFA in a thread in Sicer’s process, being cafefull to isolate events.</li>
<li>Use SOFA in a separate process of PythonSlicer, e.g. like <a href="https://github.com/pieper/SlicerParallelProcessing">ParallelProcessing</a>, which allows, for example, launching the process on a different computer than Slicer is running on.  This was technically possible before, but is easier with the superbuild version.</li>
</ul>

---
