# 2022.07.19 Weekly Meeting

**Topic ID**: 24318
**Date**: 2022-07-14
**URL**: https://discourse.slicer.org/t/2022-07-19-weekly-meeting/24318

---

## Post #1 by @Sam_Horvath (2022-07-14 16:41 UTC)

<p>Next Tuesday, we will be having our next weekly hangout at 10:00 AM ET until 11 PM ET.</p>
<p>Anyone is welcome to join to ask questions at <a href="https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware">https://bit.ly/slicer-googlemeet-hosted-by-kitware</a></p>
<p>Agenda:</p>
<ul>
<li>Slicer 5.0.3 release progress</li>
</ul>
<p>Please post to this thread to put a topic on the agenda!  We will try to prioritize agenda items during the meeting.</p>
<p>Thanks<br>
Sam and J-Christophe</p>

---

## Post #2 by @Sam_Horvath (2022-07-19 14:33 UTC)

<p>Discussed:</p>
<ul>
<li>Remaining tasks for 5.0.3 release notice
<ul>
<li>VTK details <a class="mention" href="/u/jcfr">@jcfr</a>
</li>
<li>
<s>Changelog TOC</s> <a class="mention" href="/u/sam_horvath">@sam_horvath</a>
</li>
<li>
<s>Split post</s> <a class="mention" href="/u/sam_horvath">@sam_horvath</a>
</li>
<li>Link to post for WebServer <a class="mention" href="/u/lassoan">@lassoan</a>
</li>
<li>Link to post for Extension Manager <a class="mention" href="/u/lassoan">@lassoan</a>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>SegmentMesher status</li>
<li>Code of conduct status</li>
</ul>

---
